The Remnant ¡V Book Left Behind Series 

RAYFORD STEELE had endured enough brushes with death to know thatthe cliche was more than true: Not only did your life flashbefore your mind's eye, but your senses were also on high alert.
As he knelt awkwardly on the unforgiving red rock of the city ofPetra in ancient Edom, he was aware of everything, rememberedeverything, thought of everything and everybody. 

Despite the screaming Global Community fighter bombers largerthan any he had ever seen or even read about he heard his ownconcussing heart and wheezing lungs. New to the robe and sandalsof an Egyptian, he tottered on sore knees and toes. Rayford couldnot bow his head, could not tear his eyes from the sky and thepair of warheads that seemed to grow larger as they fell. 

Beside him his dear compatriot, Abdullah Smith, prostratedhimself, burying his head in his hands. To Rayford, Smittyrepresented everyone he was responsible for the entireTribulation Force around the world. Some were in Chicago, some inGreece, some with him in Petra. One was in New Babylon. And asthe Jordanian groaned and leaned into him, Rayford felt Abdullahshuddering. 

Rayford was scared too. He wouldn't have denied it. Where was thefaith that should have come from seeing God, so many times,
deliver him from death? It wasn't that he doubted God. But 
something deep within his survival instinct, he assumed told himhe was about to die. 

For most people, doubt was long gone by now . . . there were fewskeptics anymore. If someone were not a Christ follower by now,
probably he had chosen to oppose God. 

Rayford had no fear of death itself or of the afterlife.
Providing heaven for his people was a small feat for the God whonow manifested himself miraculously every day. It was the dyingpart Rayford dreaded. For while his God had protected him up tonow and promised eternal life when death came, he had not sparedRayford injury and pain. What would it be like to fall victim to 


the warheads? 

Quick, that was sure. Rayford knew enough about Nicolae Carpathiato know the man would not cut corners now. While one bomb could 
easily destroy the million people who all but Rayford, it seemedtucked their heads as close to between their legs as they wereable, two bombs would vaporize them. Would the flashes blind him?
Would he hear the explosions? feel the heat? be aware of his bodydisintegrating into bits? Whatever happened, Carpathia wouldturn it into political capital. He might not televise the millionunarmed souls, showing their backsides to the Global Community asthe bombs hurtled in. But he would show the impact, the blasts,
the fire, the smoke, the desolation. He would illustrate thefutility of opposing the new world order. 

Rayford's mind argued against his instincts. Dr. BenJudahbelieved they were safe, that this was a city of refuge, theplace God had promised. And yet Rayford had lost a man here justdays before. On the other hand, the ground attack by the GC hadbeen miraculously thwarted at the last instant. Why couldn'tRayford rest in that, trust, believe, have confidence? 

Because he knew warheads. And as these dropped, parachutes puffedfrom each, slowing them and allowing them to drop simultaneouslystraight down toward the assembled masses. Rayford's heart sankwhen he saw the black pole attached to the nose of each bomb. TheGC had left nothing to chance. Just over four feet long, as soonas those standoff probes touched the ground they would trip thefuses, causing the bombs to explode above the surface. 

Chloe Steele Williams was impressed with Hannah's driving.
Unfamiliar vehicle, unfamiliar country yet the Native American,
who had been uncannily morphed into a New Delhi Indian, handledthe appropriated GC Jeep as if it were her own. She was smootherand more self confident than Mac McCullum had been, but of coursehe had spent the entire drive across the Greek countrysidetalking. 

"I know this is all new to you gals," he had said, causing Chloeto catch Hannah's eye and wink. If anybody could get away with 


unconscious chauvinism, it was the weathered pilot and formermilitary man, who referred to all the women in the Trib Force as"little ladies" but did not seem consciously condescending. 

"I got to get to the airport," he told them, "which is thataway,
and y'all have got to get into Ptolemas and find the Co op." Hepulled over and hopped out. "Whicha you two is drivin' again?" 

Hannah climbed behind the wheel from the backseat, her starchedwhite GC officer's uniform still crisp. 

Mac shook his head. "You two look like a coupla Wacs, but 'coursethey don't call 'em that anymore." He looked up and down theroad, and Chloe felt compelled to do the same. It was noon, thesun high and hot and directly overhead, no clouds. She saw noother vehicles and heard none. "Don't worry about me," Mac added.
"Somebody'll be along and I'll catch a ride." 

He lifted a canvas bag out of the back and slung it over hisshoulder. Mac also carried a briefcase. Gustaf Zuckermandel Jr.,
whom they all knew as Zeke or Z, had thought of everything. Thelumbering young man in Chicago had made himself into the bestforger and disguiser in the world, and Chloe decided that thethree of them alone were the epitomes of his handiwork. It was sostrange to see Mac with no freckles or red hair. 

His face was dark now, his hair brown, and he wore glasses hedidn't need. She only hoped Z's work with her dad and the othersat Tetra proved as effective. 

Mac set down his bags and rested his forearms atop the driver'sside door, bringing his face to within inches of Hannah's. "Youkids got everything memorized and all?" Hannah looked at Chloe,
fighting a smile. How many times had he asked that on the flightfrom the States and during the drive? They both nodded. "Lemmesee your name tags again. " 

Hannah's was right in front of him. "Indira Jinnah from New 


Delhi," Mac read. Chloe leaned forward to where he could seehers. "And Chloe Irene from Montreal." He covered his own name 
tag. And you're on the staff of who? " 

"Senior Commander Howie Johnson of WinstonSalem," Chloe said.
They'd been over it so many times. "You're now the ranking GCofficer in Greece, and if anybody doubts it, they can check withthe palace." 

"Awright then," Mac said. "Got your side arms? This Kronoscharacter, at least a relative of his, has some more firepower." 

Chloe knew they needed more firepower, especially not knowingwhat they would encounter. But learning the Luger and the Uziwhich they knew the Greek underground could supply had been morethan enough to tax her before they left Chicago. 

"I still say the Co op people are going to clam up when they seeour uniforms," Hannah said. 

" Show 'em your marl, sweetie, " Mac said. 

The radio under the dashboard crackled. "Attention GC 
Peacekeeping forces. Be advised, Security and Intelligence haslaunched an aerial attack on several million armed subversives of 
the Global Community in a mountain enclave discovered by groundforces about fifty miles southeast of Mizpe Ramon in the NegevDesert. The insurgents murdered countless GC ground troops andcommandeered unknown numbers of tanks and armored carriers. 

"Global Community Security and Intelligence Director Suhail Akbarhas announced that two warheads have been dropped simultaneously,
to be followed by a missile launched from Resurrection Airport inAmman, and that the expected result will be annihilation of therebel headquarters and its entire personnel force. While thereremain pockets of resistance around the world, Director Akbarbelieves this will effectively destroy percent of the adherentsof the traitorous Judah-ites, including Tsion Ben-Judah himself 


and his entire cabinet." 

Chloe's hand flew to her mouth, and Hannah grabbed her otherhand. "Just pray, girls," Mac said. "We all but knew this wascomin'. Either we have faith or we don't." 

"That's easy to say from here," Chloe said. "We could lose fourpeople, not to mention all the Israelis we promised to protect." 

"I'm not talon' it lightly, Chloe. But we got a job to do heretoo, and this is no safer than a mountain under a bomb attack.
You keep your wits about you, hear? Listen to me-we won't knowwhat happened at Petra till we see it with our own eyes or hearit from our people. You heard the lies already, from the GC totheir own forces! We know for sure there's only a million peoplein Petra and-" 

"Only?!" 

"Well, yeah, compared to several million like they said. Andarmed? No way! And did we kill GC forces murder 'em, I mean? Andwhat about commandeerin those-" 

"I know, Mac," Chloe said. "It's just-" 

"You'd better practice callin' me by my GC name, Ms. Irene. Andremember everything we went over in Chicago. You may have tofight, defend yourselves, even kill somebody." 

"I'm ready," Hannah said, making Mac cock his h Chloe wassurprised too. She knew Hannah had ware to this assignment, butshe couldn't imagine Hannah wanted to kill anyone any more thanshe did. "The gloves are off," Hannah said, looking to Chloe andthen back to Mac. "We've gone way past diplomacy. If it' kill orbe killed, I'm killing somebody." 

Chloe could only shake her head. 

"I'm just saying," Hannah said, "this is war. You think theywon't kill Sebastian? They very well already could have. And I'm 


not counting on finding this Starvos girl alive." 

"Then why are we here?" Chloe said. 

"Just in case," Hannah said, using the Indian lilt Abdul-lah hadtaught her in Chicago. 

"Just in case is right," Mac said, hefting his bags again. "Ourphones are secure. Keep the solar receptors exposed during thedaytime-" 

" C'mon, Mac," Chloe said. " Give us a little credit."

 Oh' I do," Mac said. "I give you more than a. lot of credit. I'mimpressed, tell you the truth. Comin' over here for somebodyyou've never met, well, at least you, Chloe. And Hannah, et-,
Indira, I don't guess you got to know George well enough to givea -to, uh, care that much about him personally." 

Hannah shook her head. 

"But here we are, aren't we?" Mac said. "Somebody was hereworkin' for us, and best we can figure out, he's in trouble. Idon't know about you, but I'm not leavin' here without him." 

Mac spun and stared at the horizon, causing Chloe and Hannah todo the same. A black dot grew as it moved their way. "Y'all runalong now," Mac said. "And keep in touch." 

Rayford's first inkling was that he was in hell. Had he beenwrong? Had it all been for naught-? Had he been killed and missedheaven in spite of it ad? 

He was unaware of separate explosions. The bombs had caused sucha blinding flash that even with his eyes involuntarily pressedshut as tightly as his facial muscles would allow, the sheerbrilliant whiteness seemed to fill Rayford's entire skull. It wasas if the glare filled him and 


then shone from him, and he grimaced against the sound and heatthat had to follow. Surely he would be blown into the others andfinally obliterated. 

The resounding boom sent a shock wave of its own, but Rayford didnot topple, and he heard no rocks falling, no mountainousformations crashing. He instinctively thrust out his hands tosteady himself, but that proved unnecessary. He heard tenthousand wails and moans and shrieks, but his own throat wasconstricted. Even with his eyes closed, he saw the whitenessreplaced by orange and red and black, and now, oh, the stench offire and metal and oil and rock! Rayford forced himself to openhis eyes, and as the thunderous roar echoed throughout Petra herealized he was ablaze. He lifted his robed arms before his face,
at least temporarily unaware of the searing heat. He knew hisrobe, then flesh, then bone would be consumed within seconds. 

Rayford could not see far in the raging firestorm, but everyhuddled pilgrim around him was also ablaze. Abdullah rolled toone side and lay in a fetal position, his face and head stillcocooned in his arms. White, yellow, orange, black roaring flamesengulfed him as if he were a human wick for a demonic holocaust. 

One by one the people around Rayford stood and raised their arms.
Their hoods, their hair, their beards, faces, arms, hands, robes,
clothes all roared with the conflagration as if the fire werefueled from beneath them. Rayford looked above their heads butcould not see the cloudless sky. Even the sun was blotted out bythe massive sea of raging flames and a pair of roiling mushroomclouds. The mountain, the city, the whole area was afire, and thefumes and plumes and licking flames rose thousands of feet intothe air. 

What must this look like to the world, Rayford wondered, and itstruck him that the mass of Israelis were as dumbfounded as he. 
They staggered, eyeing each other, arms aloft, now embracing,
smiling! Was this some bizarre nightmare? How could they be 


engulfed by the slaughtering force of the latest in mass-
destruction technology yet still stand, squinting, with puzzledlooks, still able to hear? 

Rayford opened and closed his right fist, inches front his face,
wondering at the hissing flarelike tongues of fire that leapedfrom each digit. Abdullah struggled to his feet and turned in acircle as if drunk, mimicking the others by raising his arms andlooking skyward. 

He turned to Rayford and they embraced, the fire from theirbodies melding and contributing to the whole Abdullah pulled backto look Rayford in the face. "We are in the fiery furnace!" theJordanian exulted. 

"Amen!" Rayford shouted. "We are a million Shadrachs, Meshachs,
and Abednegos! " 

Chang Wong joined the other techies in his department as theirboss, Aurelio Figueroa, led them to a huge television monitor. Itshowed the live feed from the cockpit of one of the fighter-
bombers as it circled high above Petra, broadcast around theworld via the Global Community News Network. Later Chang wouldcheck his recording of the bug in Carpathia's office to monitorthe reactions of Nicolae, his new secretary Krystall, Leon,
Suhail, and Viv Ivins. 

"Mission accomplished," the pilot reported, scanning the targetand showing square miles raging in flames. "Suggest subsequentmissile sequence abort. Unnecessary. " 

Chang clenched his teeth so tight his jaw ached. How could anyonesurvive that? The flames were thick, and the black smoke belchedso high that the pilot had to avoid it to keep the picture clear. 

"Negative," came the reply from GC Command. "Initiate launchsequence, Amman." 


"That's overkill," the pilot muttered, "but it's your money.
Returning to base." 

"Repeat?" The voice sounded like Akbar himself. 

"Roger that. Returning to base." 

"That's another negative. Remain in position for visual feed." 

"With a missile coming, sir?" 

"Maintain sufficient clearance. Missile will find its target. " 

The second plane was cleared to return to New Babylon while thefirst, its camera continuing to show the world Petra burning inthe noonday sun, circled southeast of the red rock city. 

Chang wished he were in his room and able to communicate withChicago. How could Dr. Ben-Judah have been so wrong about Petra?
What would become of the Tribulation Force now? Who would rallywhat was left of the believers around the world? And where would 
Chang flee to when the time came? 

It was four in the morning in Chicago, and Buck sat before thetelevision. Leah and Albie joined him, Zeke having gone tocollect Enoch. "Where's Ming?" Buck said. 

"With the baby," Leah said. 
"What do you make of this?" Albie said, staring at the screen. 
Buck shook his head. " I just wish I were there." 
"Me too," Albie said. "I feel like a coward, a traitor." 
"We missed something," Buck said. "We all missed something." He


kept trying to call Chloe, only imagining what she was goingthrough. No answer. 


"Do you believe this guy?" Leah said. "It's not enough tomassacre a million people and destroy one of the most beautifulcities in the world. I-de's chasing it with a missile." 

Buck thought Leah's voice sounded tight. And why not? She had tobe thinking what he was thinking that they had not only losttheir leadership and seen a million people incinerated, but thateverything they thought they knew was out the window. 

"Get Ming, would you?" he said. "Tell her to let Kenny sleep." 

Leah hurried out as Zeke and Enoch walked in. Zeke plopped ontothe floor, but Enoch stood fidgeting. 

"I can't stay long, Buck," he said. "My people are prettyshaken." 

Buck nodded. "Let's all get together at daybreak." 

"And-?" Enoch said. 

"And I don't know what. Pray, I guess." 

"We've been praying," Albie said. "It's time to reload." 

Rayford could not keep from laughing. Tears poured from him andhuge guffaws rose from deep in his belly as the people in Petrabegan shouting and singing and dancing. They spontaneously formedhuge, revolving circles, arms around each other's shoulders,
hopping and kicking. Abdullah was glued to Rayford's side,
giggling and shouting, "Praise the Lord!" 

They remained in the midst of fire so thick and deep and highthat they could see only each other and the flames. No sky, nosun, nothing in the distance. All they knew was that they werekindling for the largest fire in history, and yet they wereunharmed. 


"Will we wake up, Captain?" Abdullah shouted, cackling. "This ismy weirdest dream ever!" 

"We are awake, my friend," Rayford yelled back, though Abdullah'sear was inches from him. "I pinched myself! " 

That made Abdullah laugh all the more, and as their circle spunand widened, Rayford wondered when the flame would die down andthe world would find out that God had once again triumphed overthe evil one. 

An older couple directly across from him gazed at each other asthe circle turned, their smiles huge and wonder-filled. "I'm onfire!" the woman shouted. 

"I am too!" the man said, and hopped awkwardly, nearly pullingher and others down as he kept one foot in the air, showing herthe fire engulfing his entire leg. 

Rayford glanced past them, aware of something strange andwondering what could be stranger than this. Here and there withinhis range of vision, which extended only about thirty feet, wasthe occasional huddled bundle of clothes or a robe that evidenced 
a person still curled on the ground. 

Rayford pulled away from Abdullah and a young man on his otherside and made his way to one of those on the ground. He knelt andput a hand on the man's shoulder, trying to get him to rise or atleast look up. The man wrenched away, wailing, quivering, cryingout, " God, save me!" 

"You're safe!" Rayford said. "Look! See! We are ablaze and yet weare unharmed! God is with us!" 

The man shook his head and folded himself further within his arms 
and legs. 


"Are you hurt?" Rayford said. "Do the flames burn you?" 

"I am without God!" the man wailed. 

"That can't be! You're safe! You're alive! Look around you!" 

But the man would not be consoled, and Rayford found others, menand women, some teenagers, in the same wretched condition. 

"People! People! People!" It was clearly the voice of Tsion Ben-
Judah, and Rayford had the feeling it came from nearby, but hecould not see the rabbi. "There will be time to rejoice and tocelebrate and to praise and thank the God of Israel! For now,
listen to me!" 

The dancing and shouting and singing stopped, but much laughtercontinued. People still smiled and embraced and looked for thesource of the voice. It was enough, they seemed to conclude, thatthey could hear him. The cries of the despairing continued aswell. 

"I do not know," Dr. Ben-Judah began, "when God will lift thecurtain of fire and we will be able to see the clear sky again. Ido not know when or if the world will know that we have been 
protected. For now it is enough that we know!" 

The people cheered, but before they could begin singing anddancing again, Tsion continued. 

"When the evil one and his counselors gather, they will see us onwhose bodies the fire had no power; the hair of our heads was notsinged, nor were our garments affected, and the smell of fire wasnot on us. They will interpret this in their own way, my brothersand sisters. Perchance they will not allow the rest of the worldto even know it. But God will reveal himself in his own way andin his own time, as he always does. 

"And he has a word for you today, friends. He says, `Behold, I 


have refined you, but not as silver; I have tested you in thefurnace of affliction. For my own sake, for my own sake, I willdo it, for how should my name be profaned? I will not give myglory to another. 

" `Listen to me, U Israel,' says the Lord God of hosts, `you aremy called ones, you are my beloved, you I have chosen. I am he, Iam the First, I am also the Last. Indeed, my hand has laid thefoundation of the earth, and my right hand has stretched out theheavens. When I call to them, they stand up together. 

" `Assemble yourselves, and hear! `mho among them has declaredthese things? The Lord loves him; he shall do his pleasure onBabylon. I, even I, have spoken.' 

"Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I amthe Lord your God, who leads you by the way you should go. Oh,
that you had heeded my commandments! Then your peace would havebeen like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of thesea. Declare, proclaim this, utter to the end of the earth thatthe Lord has redeemed his servants and they did not thirst whenHe led them through the deserts. He caused the waters to flowfrom the rock for them; he also split the rock, and the watersgushed out." 

As the Tribulation Force in Chicago watched, the fighter-bomberpilot acknowledged to GC Command that he had a visual on themissile originating from Amman. And from the right side of thescreen came the thick, white plume trailing the windingprojectile as it approached the flame and smoke rising fromPetra. 

The missile dived out of sight into the blackness, and secondslater yet another explosion erupted, blowing even wider the fire 


that seemed to own the mountainous region. But immediatelyfollowing came a colossal geyser, shooting water a mile into thesky. 

"I'm-," the pilot began, "I'm seeing -I don't know what I'mseeing. Water. Yes, water. Spraying. It's, uh, it's having someeffect on the fire and smoke. Now clearing, the water stillrising and drenching the area. It's as if the missile struck somespring that, uh this is crazy, Command. I see -I can see . . .
the flames dying now, smoke clearing. There are people alive downthe'' " 

Buck leaped from his chair and knelt before the TV. His friendswhooped and hollered. The TV feed died and GCNN was already intoits apology .for the technical difficulties. "Did you see that?"
Buck shouted. "They survived! They survived!" 

Chang's brows rose and his chin dropped. His coworkers swore andpointed and stared, groaning when the feed was interrupted. "Thatcan't be! That looked like no, there's not a chance! How long wasthat place burning? Two bombs and a missile? No!" 

Chang hurried back to his computer to make sure he was stillrecording from Carpathia's office. He couldn't wait to hear theback-and-forth between Akbar and the pilot. 

Rayford had reunited with Abdullah and was standing, listening toTsion, when the earth opened with a resounding crash and a gushof water at least ten feet in diameter burst from the ground,
rocketing so high that it was a full minute before it began torain down upon them. 

The flames and smoke cleared so quickly, and the refreshing waterfelt so good, that Rayford noticed others doing what he was. Theyspread their palms toward heaven and turned their faces to thesky, letting it wash them. Soon Rayford realized he was about a 


hundred yards from Tsion and Chaim, who stood at the edge of thegigantic abyss from where the water had burst forth. 

It appeared Tsion was again trying to gain the attention of themasses, but it was futile. They ran, they leaped, they embraced,
singing, dancing, shaking hands, laughing, and soon hundreds ofthousands were shouting their thanks to God. 

Still, here and there, Rayford saw people grieving, crying out.
Were these unbelievers? How could they have survived? Had Godprotected them in spite of themselves, just because they werehere? Rayford couldn't make it make sense. Was it important toknow who was protected and who was not and why? And would Tsionspeak to that issue? 

After several minutes, Chaim and Tsion were able to call thepeople to order. Somehow the miracle of Tsion making himselfheard by a million people without amplification was multiplied inthat they could hear him above the rushing sounds of the volcanicspewing water. 

I have agreed to stay at least a few days," Tsion announced. "Toworship with you. To thank God together. To teach. To preach. Ah,
look as the water subsides. " 

The noise began to diminish, and the top of the column of rushingwater slowly came into view, now three hundred yards above them.
Slowly but steadily the spring shrank, in height though notapparently in width. Soon it was just a hundred feet high, thenfifty, then ten. Finally it settled into the small lake caused bythe initial eruption and crater, and in the middle of the poolthe spring bubbled as if it were boiling, a ten-foot-wide, one-
foot-high gurgling that looked cool and soothing and seemedcapable of adding to the already miraculous water supply. 

"Some of you weep and are ashamed," Tsion said. "And rightly so.
Over the next few days I will minister to you as well. For whileyou have not taken. the mark of the evil one, neither have youtaken your stand with the one true God. He has foreseen in hismercy to protect you, to give you yet one more chance to choose 


him. 

"Many of you will do that, even this day, even before I begin myteaching on the unsearchable riches of Messiah and his love andforgiveness. Yet many of you will remain in your sin, risking thehardening of your heart so that you may never change your mind.
But you will never be able to forget this day, this hour, thismiracle, this unmistakable and irrefutable evidence that the Godof Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob remains in control. You may chooseyour own way, but you will never be able to disagree that faithis the victory that overcomes the world." 

Page is blank. 

Chapter 

IN CHICAGO Buck tried calling Chloe, then Rayford, then Chang.
Nothing. He tossed his phone away, but couldn't sit. "Where'sMing?" he said. "She know any of this?" 

"She's gone," Leah said. 

"Downstairs? Tell her to let Enoch's people sleep and to get uphere. " 

"My people won't be sleeping now," Enoch said. 

"She's not downstairs," Leah said. "She left a note." 

"What? " 

"Her brother told her something about


"Where's Kenny?" 

"Sleeping, Buck. He's fine. Now listen. Her brother told hersomething about her parents, and she's determined to get tothem." 


"Oh, man!" Zeke said. 

"She say something to you, Z?" Buck said. 

"Nah, but I shoulda seen it comin'. I just finished her stuffthis morning. Cut her hair, all that. Her papers are the bestI've ever done. Made a guy out of her, you know. I mean, notreally, just made her look well, you know." 

Buck knew all right. Ming was tiny to begin with. She wasanything but boyish, but Zeke had cut her hair, showed her how tocarry herself as a man, clipped her nails, removed the color fromher face. From his stash of clothes and alterations on her old GC 
uniform, he had turned her into a young, male GC Peacekeeper. 

"What name?" Buck said. 

"Her brother's," Z said. "Chang. Last name Chow. I didn't knowshe was gonna be out of here as soon as I got her ready." 

"Not your fault. How long has she been gone? Maybe we can catchher." 

"Buck!" Leah said. "She's an adult, a widow. If she wants to goto China, you can't stop her." 

Buck shook his head. "How long do you think we're safe here witheverybody running around the streets whenever they feel like it?
Chang's already told us the palace is starting to suspectsomething. If Steve Plank heard about it in Colorado, it won't belong before somebody comes snooping around." 

"She probably didn't tell you what she was doing because she knewyou'd try to talk her out of it." 

"I might have tried to help. Find her a ride, something. 


" 

"Yeah, like you were going to arrange for a plane and a pilot." 

Buck shot a double take at Leah's sarcasm. His fatherin-law had 
groused that she was capable of it, but Buck hadn't been thebrunt of it before. "This isn't helpful, Leah," he said. 

"Helpful would have been to send Albie with her." 

"I didn't know she was going!" 

"Well, now you do." 

"And I'm willing," Albie said. "But-" 

"We can't spare you," Buck said. "Anyway, your cover's blown andwe don't have a new one for you yet." 

"I can take care of that inside twenty-four hours," Zeke said. 

"No! Let's just hope she checks in and keeps us posted." Buckkicked a chair. "How in the world is she going to sound like aguy? She's got that soft, delicate voice. " 

"Not when she was barking orders at the prison," Leah said. 

"She'd better bark all the way to China, then," Buck said.
"Imagine if she gets found out. They discover she's AWOL fromBuffer, connect her with her brother, and bingo, he's history.
And where does that leave us?" 

Chloe hadn't known what to expect, but it wasn't that Ptolemaiswould look like it had been through a war. For so long, the GChad largely left Greece alone. Its being part of the UnitedCarpathian States contributed, she was sure. Nicolae would nothave wanted the publicity that 


came with exposing Judah-ites in his own region. But the networkof believers had so flourished that eventually it was too big tohide. Once the first wave of strong-arm tactics swept through andresulted in many facing the guillotine rather than acceptingCarpathia's mark of loyalty, the battle between the GC and theChrist-following underground escalated. The administration of themark of loyalty had begun with prisoners and had not gone well.
The leadership had been infiltrated. Two young prisoners hadescaped. And once the worst of the guillotining task was over,
things got sloppier. 

One of the strongest branches of the International Commodity Coop, 
Chloe's own brainchild, was headquartered in town. It hadbecome the clandestine meeting place for believers. But theambush had cost the church there not only Lukas "Laslos" Miklos,
but also one of its most beloved senior members, Kronos, as wellas the teenager Marcel Papadopoulos. And if the girl who claimedto be Georgiana Stavros was indeed an impostor named Elena, asSteve Plank had heard, then for all Chloe knew Georgiana was deadtoo. 

Few people were on the street in the light of day, and many ofthem were GC. They saluted politely the Indian and the westernerin high-level officers' garb and smart white caps piped in bluebraid. Albie had taught Hannah and Chloe a proper salute, whichthey soon realized was crisper and more dead-on than most of thereal GC used. Indifference was their mask. No eye contact, notalking to each other loudly enough for anyone else to hear. Aserious look, close to a scowl, made them look all busi 

ness. They had places to go and people to see, and their demeanordiscouraged cordiality and small talk. 

From the GC Palace complex in New Babylon, Chang along, throughcarefully placed confidential memos from pseudo high-rankingpalace Peacekeepers, had sparked a rumor in Greece that the brasswere sending a top guy to start cleaning up the mess there. 

Chloe believed that GC forces who looked at Hannah and her twice 
were not just lonely men. She assumed they assessed the uniforms 


and put two and two together. Some had to assume these two werewith the new guy, whoever and wherever he was. 

Hannah had affected the perfect walk, and Chloe had she not beenso on edge would have been amused at "Indira." They hurried to adingy storefront, where a cracked window had been crudely taped.
A dusty TV sat on a shelf and pointed to the street, and a half-
dozen or so GC knelt or squatted in front of the window watchingit. One noticed Chloe's and Hannah's reflections in the window 
and cleared his throat. The others quickly stood and saluted. 

"Just make way, gentlemen," Hannah said, again with her practicedaccent. 

It was all Chloe could do to compose herself when first she sawPetra burning, and eventually whatever it was that had causedGCNN to pull the plug on the coverage. The milling GC leanedforward and stared at the TV, then at each other. "What wasthat?" one said. "Survivors?" 

Others laughed and punched him. "You're crazy, man." 

"Back to work, gentlemen," Hannah said. 

"Yes, sir, ma'am," one said, and the others laughed. "You knowthe difference between a male and a female officer, son?" Chloesnapped. "Yes, ma'am," he said, straightening. "You think thatwas funny?" "No, ma'am. I apologize." "Where's the nearest pub?"
"Ma'am? 

" 

"Hard of hearing, boy?" 

"No, ma'am. Three blocks up and two over." He pointed. 


"You on duty, Peacekeeper?" 

"Yes, ma'am." 

"Where are you supposed to be?" 

"Squadron headquarters, ma'am." 

"Carry on." 

The women had left their phones off, having agreed with Mac thatthey would not use them until after their first contact with theunderground or in case of an emergency. Chloe knew her father andher husband would be trying to reach her after what she had seenon TV, but that would have to wait. 

A few minutes later a young man in a chair in front of the pubChloe guessed him in his early twenties glanced at them frombehind his Global Community Weekly. Chloe wondered if the youngman would believe her husband used to publish that very magazine.
The boy appeared to casually shift position, pulling a corduroycap lower over his eyes and resting his foot against a window atsidewalk level. 

"Did you see what I saw?" Hannah said under her breath. 

"Yep. Stick with the plan." 

The women treated the lookout as if he were invisible and entered 
the pub. The shades were pulled and it took a minute to adjust tothe darkness. The place carried the stench of stale alcohol andan indifference to plumbing. 

A couple of GC at a table in the corner immediately slipped out aback door on the street side. Chloe and 

Hannah pretended not to notice. The proprietor greeted themapologetically in Greek. 


"English?" Chloe suggested. 

He shook his head. 

A nearby man in a turban rose and said something 

quickly to Hannah in an Indian dialect. Chloe was stunned at howHannah covered. She looked the man knowingly in the eye andwinked at him, shaking her head slightly. This somehow satisfiedhim, and he sat. 

The proprietor swept a hand toward a row of liquor bottles behindhim. Chloe shook her head. "Coca-Cola?" she said. 

"Coca-Cola!" he said, smiling, and reached below the counter.
Instinctively, Chloe rested her elbow on the handle of the Lugerat her side, and she noticed Hannah casually place her hand onthe leather strap snapped over the grip of her nine-millimeterGlock. 

The man behind the counter kept his eyes on them even whenreaching, and now he smiled, bringing into view one ancient glassbottle of Coke. He held up one 

finger, pointing at the bottle and pushing two glasses 

across the counter. Chloe lay two Nicks in front of him andcarried the stuff to a table. 

After a sip, the lukewarm liquid biting at her dry throat, Chloeturned in her chair and quickly surveyed the room. People who hadbeen gawking turned away. "English?" she said. "Anyone?" 

A chair scraped and a heavyset man wearing several layers ofclothing, his face moist from perspiration, approached with shy,
small steps. He saluted politely, 


a 
though he was clearly not GC. "Leedle Englees," he said. 
"You speak English?" Chloe said. "You understand me?" 
He made a tiny space between his thumb and index finger. 
"A little?" she said. 
He nodded. "Leedle." 
"Downstairs," Chloe tried. "Where's downstairs?" 
The man furrowed his brow, wrinkling the small tattooed on his 


forehead. "Dounce?" he said. 
She pointed down. "Downstairs. Basement. Cellar?" 
He held up a meaty hand and shook his head. "Clean," he said.


"Wash. Launder." 
"A laundry?" she said, and felt Hannah's gaze. This was it. 
He nodded. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Tank ye," he said, but stood there, thick fingers entwined.


Chloe dug half a Nick from her pocket and held it out to him. He


took it with a bow and headed for the bar. 
"Wonder what they know?" Hannah said quietly. "Rest of the place
seems to be waiting for us to make a move." 


"Uh-huh," Chloe said. "Let's just sit awhile, then mosey out. The


laundry is a front, but people must actually take clothes there." 
Hannah shrugged. "Do they have to come through here to get there?
I have to think few believers would risk frequenting this place." 



The women sipped their Cokes and glanced at their watches. No onebut the two GC had left since they arrived, and no one hadentered either. The young man from the chair walked lazily backand forth in front of the door twice. .fit least two passersbysaw the women in uniform and apparently chose not to enter. 

Chloe and Hannah stood and wandered out, looking for anotherentrance that could lead downstairs. "English?" Chloe asked theyoung man out front. He shrugged, staring at her. "Is thereanother entrance to this place? " 

He shook his head. 
"Not around back? Not through the alley?" 
He shook his head again. 
"I heard there was a laundry here," she said. "I need some


cleaning done." 
He stared at her. "I see no laundry." His accent was Greek. 
"We don't carry it around," she said. "How do I get downstairs to


the laundry?" 
"Past the toilet," he said, his voice husky. "Back door 
this side." He nodded toward the exit the GC had used. He tilted 


his chair back until it bumped the wall. "But they're closed. " 
"In the middle of the day? Why?" 
He shrugged, pulling his cap lower and turning back to his


magazine. 


"Oh, well," Chloe said, sighing. Hannah followed her to thecorner and out of sight. "I give hint thirty seconds," she said. 
After a beat, Hannah peeked around the corner. "You're right, as 


usual," she said. "Gone." 
The women hurried back to the pub, went in the back door, past
the washroom, and down rickety wood steps. A thin, middle-!aged
woman wearing a bulky gray sweater and a bandanna that covered


her hair and much of her face stood terrified in the light from
the window. 
"Laundry?" Chloe said. 
The woman nodded, a fist pressed under her neck. 
"We can bring laundry here?" 
She nodded again. Through the edge of a thick curtain hanging in


a doorway behind the woman, Chloe spotted the young man. His eyes
were wide. She pointed at him and beckoned with a finger. 
"No ! " the woman said desperately, backing against the wall. 
The young man ventured out, a weapon showing under his shirt. 
"Uzi?" Chloe said. 
"Yes, and I'll use it," he said. 
"Take off your cap," Chloe said. 
"I'll shoot you dead first," he said, reaching for his weapon. 


The woman moaned. "Costar, no." 
As he brought the ugly weapon into view, Chloe and Hannah reached
not for their guns but for their caps. Revealing their foreheads,
they whispered in unison, "Jesus is risen." 


The boy closed his eyes and exhaled loudly. The woman slid down
the wall to the floor. "He is risen indeed," she managed. 
"I almost killed you," Costas said. He turned to the woman. "Are 



you all right, Mama?" 


His mother had buried her face in her hands. "You come disguised
as GC?" she said, her English labored. "What are you doing here?" 
"I am Chloe Williams. This is my friend, Han " 
"You are not!" the woman said, wiping her face and struggling to


her feet. She rushed to Chloe and embraced her fiercely. "I am
Pappas. I go by Mrs. P." 
"This is my friend Hannah Palemoon." 
"You are in the Co-op too?" Mrs. P. said. 
Hannah shook her head. 
"You are front India?" 
"No. America." 
"You disguised in disguise?" 


Hannah smiled and nodded and looked to Costas. "Are we safe?" 
"We should move," he said, leading them through the curtain to a
huge concrete-walled storeroom full of supplies from all over the
world. "The Co-op works as well 


here as anywhere," he said. "But we are suffering. Only a few of
us are left." 


"The people upstairs don't bother you?" 
"We give them things. They ask no questions. They have their own
secrets. Someday, when it serves them, they will turn us in." 


"Head of the Co-op in my place," Mrs. P. whispered, her hand over
her heart. "No one will ever believe." 



"You can't stay long," Costas said. "How can we help you?" 

Two young GC Peacekeepers flashed an obscene gesture at Mac asthey flew past in a small van; then Mac noticed the look on one'sface when the uniform must have registered in his mind. Thevehicle skidded off the asphalt and threw gravel as it backedtoward him. "We waved! " the passenger hollered as the vanstopped. He jumped out. "We waved at you, sir! Did you see us?" 

"I did, and I thank you very much." The driver tumbled out aswell, and Mac returned their salutes. "My support staff had anerrand headin' the other way, and I have business at theairport." 

"We can drop you. Do you need us to drop you? We'll drop you." 

"I appreciate it," Mac said, as he shoved his bags ahead of himand climbed in back. "What's goin' on in Petra? " 

"We got 'em, sir," the driver said, turning up the 

radio. Mac rested his forehead in his hand as if trying to listencarefully. He prayed desperately for his comrades. "Smoked 'emall. There'll be nothing left to bury." 

"Let me hear it, boys," Mac said, and the two fell silent. Justbefore the connection was lost, Mac heard enough from the pilotto encourage him. "Well, that is good news, isn't it?" he said. 

The passenger turned. "Sure enough. I don't know what to make ofthat last bit, but we got 'em, we sure did." 

At the airport Mac could hardly believe the disarray. What wasleft of the GC force there looked undisciplined andlackadaisical. That could work only to his advantage. "I needwheels," he told the only Peacekeeper who rose and saluted him inthe main hangar. "I need the key to those wheels, I want to storemy stuff, and I want to see a Rooster Tail, if it's here." 


"Oh, it's here, sir, and we've been expecting you. I'll take your
stuff." 


"Did I say I wanted you to take my stuff?" 
"No, sir, you plain as day said you wanted to store it yourself."
He ran to a desk where he dug keys out of a huge cardboard box.
"The Rooster Tail's in Hangar . The car's the first one on the
end. I can bring it to you." 


"You do that." 


"Oh, almost forgot. I've got to put your code into the computer
and " 
"Not before you bring the car, you don't." 
"Well, that's true enough." And he ran off. 
Mac was aware of others staring at him, sitting 
straighter, looking busy. But nothing seemed to be going on, no


planes coming or going. 


"Gonna get us some help here, Commander?" someone called from
across the room. 
Mac glared at him. "Excuse me, officer?" 
"I said, are you-" 
"I heard what you said! Now get your seat out of that chair and


address me properly!" 
The man rose quickly and caught his foot on a wheel of the chair,
stumbling before he righted himself and approached. Mac leveled
his eyes at him. The man stopped and saluted. Mac ignored it.
"You make it a practice to holler at your senior officers across
the room?" 



"I wasn't thinking, sir." 
"You had a question." 
"Just wondering if we were going to get some support here, sir.


You see how shorthanded we are." 
Mac looked from one side of the hangar to the other and out onto


the runway. "You're overstaffed and underworked, and you know
it." 
"Yes, sir." 
"Am I wrong?" 
"No, sir. It's just that, well, we used to " 
"As you were." 
The man saluted again and backed away. The younger officer


skidded Mac's car to a stop in front of the hangar and opened the
trunk. "You want some assistance with that high-speed
Transatlantic, sir?" 


"I need nothing but a toolbox and to be left to it. What'd you
people find in it?" 
"Nothing, sir." 


"You're not serious." 
"We were instructed to leave it for the brass. That would be you,
I guess." 


Mac pressed his lips together. Was there nothing Chang Wong could
not accomplish with a few keystrokes? "Give me a toolbox and tell
me who's handling the Judah-ite roundup." 


"Sir 



Mac cocked his head and squinted at the kid. "You tellin' me we
had one of the most successful busts of the underground right
under you people's noses out here, and nobody knows a thing about
it?" 


"Oh, that, no. Yeah, we knew. We know. I just, I mean, what are


you asking?" 
"Who's handling it? They took an operative alive and I want to
see him. I'm under orders to see him." 


"Well, I wouldn't know where they were holding him, sir. I mean,


I-" 
"I didn't expect you to know where they're holding him! Did I ask
you that?" 


"No, sir. Sorry." 


"I expect whoever's handling the operation for us locally will
know that. You follow?" 
"of course." 
"So who is?" 
"Guy with a funny name, sir. You'd have to check at headquarters


in Ptolemais." 
"Happens to be Nelson Stefanich. You in touch with him?" 
S 
"Yes, sir." 
"Can you make sure he's expectin' me?" 
"Yes, sir." 



"Tell 'im I expect all the cooperation and information I need assoon as I get there." 

"Yes, sir. Now could I get you to give me your sixdigit securitycode for the-" 

"zero-nine-one-zero-zero-one," Mac rattled off, then took thetoolbox and drove to the hangar where George Sebastian's planehad been quarantined. He knew where George hid his arsenal, andwithin seconds he had removed panels in the cargo hold and lifteda directed energy weapon and a fifty-caliber rifle with bipodinto the trunk of the car. He could tell front the safety tabGeorge had positioned on the cargo door that the GC had searchedthe hold. Clearly, they had not discovered the secret panels. 

Mac rushed back to the main hangar. "Clean as a whistle," he toldthe young man, handing the toolbox out the window. Ptolemais knowI'm comin'?" 

"Expecting you, sir." 

George Sebastian pretended to still be asleep. For the lastseveral minutes he had been awake, hearing urgent statickymessages coming to his captors and their earnest, desperatereplies, so quiet he could not make out the details. 

He lay on his right side, his huge frame pressing into 

the packed dirt floor. He was cold, stiff, and ravenous. Hisright arm was asleep from the elbow to the tips of. his fingers.
He was handcuffed behind his back. George's head and facethrobbed, and he tasted blood. 

He heard soft snoring behind him. Oh, if only his hands werefree. He would position himself to get blood flowing into thatright arm again, would move silently into position. And if the 


sleeping guard was the only one with him, he could pounce, disarmthe man, and silence him in a second. George turned painfully,
his whole body aching and desperate for food and water. He rubbedhis cheek against the soil enough to push the blindfold away fromhis eye just enough to get a peek. Sure enough, the guard satthere asleep, one arm dangling, his high-powered weapon in hislap. Strange. Maybe he was wrong, but George thought he hadfigured out the hierarchy of this crew. The big man, who tried tocover a French accent, was not the leader. He talked a lot, butit was the other one the Greek man George had not injured whoseemed to hold the cards. Yet, unless he was unusually cunningand was trying to fake George into trying something, he was theone who now slept just a few feet from his prisoner. 

George's right arm tingled, but with his left hand he maneuveredenough to feel the handcuffs. Tight and strong. He had broken outof conventional cuffs before, but not ones applied this securely.
He heard the door open at the top of the stairs, and the youngwoman he'd heard them call her Elena, though she had originally 

posed as Georgiana said, "I say give him one last chance, then dowhat we have to do." 

The big man, George's double, clomped down the stairs with hishandgun out. Elena followed, unarmed, but called back up thestairs, " Come now, Socrates!" 

They've got a dog? 

Elena's yell woke the leader, and he stood, clearing his throatand wiping his eyes. 

"Anything?" the big man asked him. 

"Nah. Hasn't moved." 

"Still alive, isn't he?" 

"Breathing." 


The big man spoke into the ear of the just roused one. 

"Really?" the smaller man said. "What time?" 

"Nobody knows yet, but today or tonight." 

The leader swore. 

George hoped the moved blindfold didn't show. The big man put aheavy boot on his left shoulder and rolled him roughly onto hisback. "Wake up, big boy," he said, and the leader added, "Lastchance." 

George wanted to say, "For what? Uncuff me and take thisblindfold off, you coward, and I'll kill you unarmed." But he wasdetermined to remain silent. No satisfaction for these amateurs. 

Heavy, awkward steps resounded from upstairs, and the guard withthe injured knee slowly made his way down. The big man handed hisside arm to Elena and straddled George. He dug his hands underGeorge's arms, bent his knees, and lifted, grunting as he propped 

George up against the far wall. George let his chin drop to hischest. 

"All right," the leader said, "Plato, over there, and Socrates,
over here." George thought he was hearing things. He had been oneof the few scholarship football players at San Diego State who'dread Greek history, but his mediocre performance on the exams hadnudged him toward the military. His mind had to be playing trickson him. So it was Plato and Socrates who stood six feet from him 
on each side, their weapons trained on his head? It was thehunger, he decided. 

"He tries anything, kill him, but be careful of me." 

The leader George could only imagine his name knelt in front ofhim and yanked off the blindfold. George blinked and squinted butkept staring at the floor. Now the man pressed the barrel of hishandgun into George's forehead and lifted his face. "Look into my 


eyes and see how serious I am." George was tempted to spit athim. 

"You have been brave, a model prisoner of war. But you have lost.
You are down to your last chance. I am willing to waste no moretime or energy on you. The only way for you to leave here and seeyour wife and child again is to tell us what we need to know.
Otherwise, I will kill you with a point-blank round through yourbrain. You have ten seconds to tell me where the Judah-ite safe 
house is." 

George could think of no reason to disbelieve the man. He wasweak, wasted, at the end of himself, but he had succeeded. He hadgiven away nothing, and he would 

not now. No way he would be allowed to go free even if he gave upChicago. There was one option, but he didn't trust himself tochoose it. He could make up a story -a long, rambling, nuance-
filled tale anyone might believe. It could include a poisonousgas in the cockpit of his plane that would be triggered bysomeone trying to fly it who didn't first enter the proper codeinto the security system. 

That might keep the GC from absconding with the Rooster Tail. Itmight even leave it available for the Trib Force if anyone cameto try to spring him. But he was sure Captain Steele and the restassumed him dead by now, and why not? And if he tried fashioninga story to delay his execution, in his present state he wouldn'tbe able to keep it straight and he couldn't risk lettingsomething slip that might be true. 

George let his forehead rest on the muzzle of the gun and kepthis mouth shut. He did not want to flinch, to grimace, toshudder. He merely clenched his teeth in anticipation of the shotthat would deliver him to heaven. 

Chapter 


"WE WERE with the group that had the leaders," Costas Pappasexplained. "The pastor and his wife. The Mikloses. Old manKronos. His cousin is still with us. You know who all these 
people are?" 

"We know everything," Chloe said. "But how can you know so muchand still survive?" 

"Marcel told us the plan the night it happened," Mrs. Pappassaid. "The girl was supposed to have been seen by people in theunderground who knew her, but it was just a rumor. Everythingseemed to add up. Help from the Tribulation Force, a militaryman, an operative from America, on his way back from theoperation in Israel." 

"But how did you learn what had happened? What did you do whenMr. Miklos and Mr. Kronos did not check back in?" 

"We went looking," Costas said, his lips quivering. 

Chloe had thought him a bumbling lookout, then an angry youngman. But he had to be brave, she decided, to live as he did. Thissoftness touched her. "We knew the plan. We never found thestones at the side of the road. They had either been run over orbrushed away. But those animals left that car right where itstopped, not .far from there, in plain sight." 

"But surely they were watching it," Hannah said, "lying in waitfor you." 

"We were sure of that," the boy said. "We drove past quickly,
trying to appear as if we were not even looking. But we know K'scar. It was just a few meters off the road the lights gone dim,
the engine off, a door open. We were desperate to search it, tofind out what happened, but we didn't want to be stupid." 

"And so . . . ? 


"We waited. We had to. There was no way to know when they wouldtire of waiting for someone to come, but after a few days, wecould not stand not knowing anymore. Kronos's cousin lent us afour-wheel-drive truck, and from topography maps we plotted a wayto get to the car from the fields rather than the road. We did itafter midnight, slowly making our way from tiny trails throughthick woods to the open, rocky plain. Cousin Kronos drove, andtwo others and I walked ahead in dark clothes to be sure no one 
saw or heard. It had to be three in the morning before we hadbrought the truck as close as we dared. We could not see Kronos'scar yet, but we knew where it was. When we crawled over a risewhere we 

"There is no longer money for streetlights, and the battery inthe car had long since died. There was no moon and we didn't dareuse our flashlights, so nothing illuminated the car. If the GCwere waiting to ambush us, they would not have thought of ourcoming the hard way, especially that far. We were almost upon thecar when we finally saw it in the darkness. We listened andwatched and even fanned out to see if we could hear any GC. Thenwe felt in the car and found the bodies. Maybe we were foolish,
but we dared shine our lights, just seconds at a time, our bodieshiding most of the light. " 

Costas quivered at the memory and broke down. He struggled to beunderstood. "All three of then-," he managed. "Shot. Marcel inthe face. Back of his head gone. We had to work to pull him fromunder the dashboard. K took one in the neck from behind. Probablycut his spinal cord. Laslos in the forehead." 

"No sign of the American?" 

Costas shook his head. "We dragged the bodies, one by one, allthe way back to the truck. They stank and were stiff. It wasawful. My friend, who was studying criminology before all ofthis, determined that whoever shot them was probably in the carwith them. We also found Marcel's bag, one we had given him. Itwas under Laslos's body, covered with his blood. It still had achange of clothes and food in it. We do not know what happened tothe American." 


Chloe told him and his mother what Steve Plank had reported, that

the GC boasted the successful thwart of 
an escape attempt. "'There was an impostor for the girl and forour man. Something went wrong and all this resulted." 

"The American is alive?" Mrs. P. said. 
Chloe nodded. "Being held somewhere. They're probably trying to


break him for information, but he's well trained. We're more
worried he will get himself killed for not cooperating." 
"You must think the GC is stupid," Costas said. 
"Sorry?" Chloe said. 
"You come here disguised as GC and you think they will just take


you to him. " 
"It's risky, we know." 
"It's suicide," Costas said. 
"What would you do, son?" Chloe said, realizing that if Costas


was younger than she, it wasn't by much. 


He shrugged. '`The same, I suppose, but I can't imagine it
working." 
"we have a man inside the palace in New Babylon, or we wouldn't


dream of trying this," Chloe said. She began to outline the
preparations and Mac's plans. 
"Ah, excuse me," Hannah said. "A minute, please?" 
Chloe glanced at her, then followed Hannah to a corner. 
" Chloe, do they need to know this?" 



"axle can trust them! They're Co-op." 


"But what if they are caught and forced to talk? Don't burden
them with all this." 
"Think of what they've been through, Hannah. They'll never cave.


" 
"Well, if they do, it's more than just your funeral, you knows." 
They returned to Mrs. Pappas and her son. 
"This works?" Costas said. "The GC falls for this?" 
"Not for long," Chloe admitted, sneaking a peek at Hannah. "But


with the right setup on the main database in New Babylon, we have
bluffed ourselves into some remarkable places." 


"We just met you," Mrs. Pappas said. "And we will bury you soon." 
"We are people of faith," Hannah said, dropping her accent. "And
we know you are too. We must also be people of action. We know
the odds and we accept them. We don't know what else to do. Would
you leave a comrade to a certain death?" 


Costas was still emotional. He shrugged. "I don't know. I don't
see that you have a choice, but you have a better chance going in
with artillery than with disguises. I just can't see it working." 


"But we don't know where our man is!" Chloe said. "How do we find 
that out without infiltrating?" 


"What about your man in Colorado? He seems to know so much." 
"He can tell us only what he overhears. If he asks for more
details than seem appropriate, he'll soon be found out too." 


"How does he get along in the GC without the mark? " 
Chloe explained Steve's new identity and facial reconstruction, 



aware of Hannah's loud sigh and slight 

shaking of her head. "His forehead is plastic. The mark ofloyalty would have to be applied under that, and no one can standlooking at him with his skull exposed." 

"Please," Hannah said under her breath. 
"I want to come with you when you go for your man," Costas said. 
"Can't allow it," Chloe said. "We have our papers, our uniforms,


and we're covered, for now, on the computer. It would take daysto do the same for you." 

"I could get a GC uniform, and you could cover for me. I " 
"No," Chloe said. "We appreciate it, but it's not going to
happen. We have a plan, and we will follow it, succeed or fail." 


"You need more firepower?" 
"We do. It would have looked suspicious, bringing in heavy


weapons that are not GC issue. Mr. McCullum is trying to get
something, either from our man's plane or his car. " 
"Where is the car?" 
"According to Plank, Sebastian's captors also have his car, which


he talked his way into at the airport." 
"And they wouldn't have searched it for weapons?" 
"We don't know and we haven't heard." 
Costas motioned the women to follow him to a corner where a large


wood trunk was buried under piles of blankets. It was full ofUzis. "Don't ask," he said. His mother provided a large laundrybag into which Costas placed three cloth-wrapped weapons and 


several clips of ammunition. "Now, you'd better go." 

George Sebastian had been told that you never hear the shot thatkills you, but how could that ever be proved? He fought to remaincomposed, not wanting to give his captors the satisfaction ofeven tensing before the death blast. He held his breath way pastwhat he believed were his final ten seconds, and then could notcontain a shiver as he exhaled. 

"All right," the leader said, "get him presentable, and fast.
Food and water first, then the shower. And do something aboutthis lip. Think of a story for that. We didn't do it." 

George opened his eyes and blinked. 

"You're still in trouble, California, but none of us is gettingfried because of you. I'm taking the cuffs off, but you've gottwo weapons aimed at you, and all we need is a reason." 

When his hands were free, George rubbed them together, makingPlato flinch. George was tempted to scare him with a feignedswing or even a shout. 

"Do something about his wrists," the leader told Elena. "Let'sgo, we've got to move." 

They shoved George up the stairs and gave him two sandwichesstuffed with what tasted like summer sausage. The bread sliceswere nearly two inches thick and dry. He had to press them hardtogether over the meat to fit them into his mouth. His split lipstretched and bled as he chewed. He sucked eagerly from a bottleof warm, stale water. 

George wanted to sit back and take a few deep 

breaths, but this was clearly not supposed to be a leisurelylunch. He gagged and coughed, but he made sure to force down allthe food. His best chance to escape or do some damage would be 


when he was unbound and they were moving him. He didn't want toinvest the mental energy guessing what it was all about, but hefelt relieved to be alive and to have accomplished his oneobjective so far silence. 

When he finished, George quickly scooped bread crumbs from thetable and pushed them into his mouth. He chased them with thelast few drops of water, tipping the bottle all the way up. Elenasnatched it from him and pointed toward a tiny room where hewould just barely fit into a shower. 

"Clothes there," she said, pointing to the floor. "You probablycan't fit through the window anyway, but someone will be outsideand armed." 

She left and shut the door, and though he knew she and probablythe others could hear what he was doing, he looked under a cotand found only dust. He yanked open three drawers of a spindlywooden dresser. Empty. There was nothing else in the room excepta window he guessed faced west. He pulled back a paperlike shade,
and Socrates leveled his weapon at him. 

"Get going!" Elena called from outside the door. 

He shed his clothes and edged into the shower. He turned on theleft faucet first and was blasted with icy water. He stepped backout and reached in, trying the other. Also cold. He turned bothon and let them run 

a minute. He tried angling the showerhead away In. m him, but itwas rusted into place. 

"The tap water is not drinkable!" he heard from Out side. Hewanted to ask if there was soap or a towel, blur he would notspeak. Gritting his teeth, George forced himself under the spray.
His body jerked and shook, b t but r he let the frigid waterflood him from his short hair to his whole body. He vigorouslyrubbed everywhere for as long as he could stand it, and just as 


he was turning off the water, he heard the room door shut. Hepeeked out. Where his clothes had been lay a pile of clean stuff,
f f, clearly belonging to Plato, his supposed look-alike. Great.
He doesn't appear nearly as tall. 

A single hand towel lay on the bed. George made it work and threwon the clothes. A nondescript undershirt protected him from aprickly brown sweater. Military-issue underwear was tight. Graywool socks started to warm him, and khaki pants with a canvasbelt were tight around the middle and rode three inches above hisankles. The GC-issue boots were snug but okay. 

George pushed the door open, and Elena motioned that he shouldfollow her back to the table where he had eaten. Plato stood 
watching, weapon in hand, but George wondered how valued the girlwas. He could have had her in a headlock before the others 
noticed, and he could have killed her before they fired. 

She awkwardly dabbed at his lip with ointment and 

assaged his hands and wrists. He studied her face for my sign ofweakness. The blood he had seen on her 

when he thought she was his underground contact was obviously nother own. She was a killer. 

Elena pressed a bulge over his eyebrow that smarted, but Georgewould not recoil. If he couldn't stand a little pain, how wouldhe fight his way out of this? It seemed incongruous that shecould find ice in that place, but she wrapped some in a cloth andheld it against his swollen forehead. She did the same to a knoton the back of his head. Why couldn't she have spared a cube ortwo for his drinking water? 

The food, whatever it was, lay heavy and troubling in hisstomach, but he also felt a surge of energy from it. Part of himwanted to do some damage, to show these yokels what an Americancaptive was capable of. Oh, he could do more than clam up. He hadalready broken one guard's knee, if he had to guess. And allduring her administering to his wounds, George had sat close 


enough to Elena to have blinded her with a twofingered shot tothe eyes, broken her jaw with a punch to the chin, or crushed herto death by flipping the table onto her and dropping his wholebody atop it. 

Little would have been gained, of course; as he would have beenshot. He fantasized about ignoring her and charging Plato,
disarming him, butting him. with the weapon, shooting Elena, andtaking his chances with the two camped outside. That had betterodds, but still not good ones. 

They were making him presentable and moving him. Why? Someoneabove them must have wanted to try eliciting information. Andthey wanted to be sure he 

was being treated right. George was apparently as close as theyhad come to anyone connected with the Judahites, and that was whyhe was still alive. 

He relished the idea of performing for GC brass. His silencewould infuriate them. Better, from his perspective-the higher upyou went, the less prepared they were for creative escapeattempts. At some point these people would realize he was notgoing to help them. There would be no information volunteered orbeat from him. Finally, at long last, he would be expendable.
They would either use him as an object lesson, claiming he hadratted out the enemy, or they would execute him. Or both. 

George's goal formed slowly in his mind. He wanted to stay alert,
to be aware of every nuance. He wanted to know when the GCfinally lost patience and realized he was a hopeless, lost cause.
Because when they had finally had enough and his end had come, hewanted to be sure to take one or two with him into eternity. Heknew from their marks they wouldn't be going where he was. Butthey'd get to their destination sooner than they thought. 

George had to fight a smile as they led him to a Jeep. He wascuffed again, but not until after he had been fitted with a large 


pair of gloves. How thoughtful, he decided. Protect my tenderwrists. 

wait to see how New Babylon spins Petra," Hannah said. "How cananyone remain an unbeliever now?" 

"Who knows when Daddy and Abdullah will be able to leave?" Chloesaid. "For all we know, Tsion will want to stay there, if theyhave the technology to let him continue cyberteaching around theworld. I have to think the GC will kill anybody who leaves." 

Mac told Chloe and Hannah that squadron headquarters in Ptolemaiswas expecting him, but that he wanted to downplay everything. 

"How so?" Chloe said. "Sounds like your way has been paved." 

"Yeah, but if I go in there, buttons shining, it's like I'm ondisplay, tryin' to impress. I could give off the smell of a ratwithout even trying. Plus, if that headquarters is anything likethe rest of this place, I'm gonna look suspicious if I don'tstart rippin' on anybody who's supposed to be in charge." 

"Tell us about it," Hannah said. "I hated working at the palace,
but the organization and decorum made this place look sick." 

"If I was really a senior commander, I'd be pushin' paper to NewBabylon for a week about this place. I had hoped to just rush inthere, get what I needed, and get going. I wasn't even going toask 'em for any support, 'cause I oughtn't need it. Now I'm of amind not to even show up." 

"what?" 

"Myself, I mean." 

"Us, then?" 


"One of you." 
"I'll go," Hannah said. 
"Now' wait a minute," Chloe said. "I " 
"rankly, I'm leaning toward Chloe myself, Hannah. I don't expect


any suspicion, but if worse came to worst and they checked youriris or your handprint, you know you're on file in the palace." 

"As a dead woman." 
"well, yeah, but then how would you explain an Indian lady havin'
the exact ID marks of a dead Native American? " 


"As long as it's not that you don't think I can pull it off." 
"You kiddin' ? Half the time I look at you and forget who you
are. But Chang has entered Chloe's readings under her new name,


so even if they got feisty and made a member of my executive
staff prove her identity, she'd sail through." 
"what do you want me to do, Mac?" Chloe said.. 
"I want you to be bored." 
"Bored? " 
"And irritated. You got grunt duty. While the fat-cat boss you


came with and his other personnel are takin' a nap at a niceplace where is none of anybody's business-you got assigned to goget the info he needs. Any red tape, any holdup at all, andyou're ticked off. Can you work that up?" 

"what do you think?" 
"Your approach is that this is bottom-end stuff just give me theinfo and let me be on my way. Make sure the 


hostage takers know we're comet so they don't get spooked, butthey'd better have their man ready. The boss is none too pleasedthat they haven't gleaned anything from him yet, so make way forsomebody who knows what he's doing." 

"Gotcha." 

"That flyboy friend of Abdullah's believes if everything goeswell, we can take Sebastian in cuffs, of course right back to hisown plane and fly out of here tonight." 

"Does local have any idea you're planning to take the prisoner? 

" 

"No, and by the time they find out, we oughta be out of here." 

"Not going to be easy," Hannah said. "Even if they buy everythingup to where we visit him." 

"It never is, Indira," Mac said, smiling. "The key, though, isnot trying to convince them of anything. You sting somebody bygetting them to come your way. Follow?" 

"Not sure." 

"For instance, if I hinted to you that Rayford or Tsion wantedyou to do something you didn't want to do, like head straightback to Chicago right now, your first reaction would be negative.
You wouldn't want to do it, you'd refuse, and I'd say, okay then,
I can't tell you the rest of it. You'd say what's that, and I'dsay, no, you made your decision so you don't need to know. Now Idon't know for sure about you, but if I was in your shoes, I'd beall over me trying to find out what the whole story was andwhether I made the right decision." 


"You bet I would, and I'd wear you down too. You know I would." 
"You probably would. But see, you'd be comin' my way then. Itwouldn't be me trying to convince you of something. It would beyou trying to drag it out of me. I tell you whatever I need to,
to get you to do what I wanted in the first place, and you don't

realize until later, when you realize I manipulated you, that you
were stung and it seemed like your idea." 
"Other words," Hannah said, "you're going to somehow make these


people beg you to take Sebastian off their hands." 
"You got it." 
"And they're going to think you're doing them a favor. " 
"Exactly. " 
"This I've got to see." 
"You will." 
"And where am I while Chloe's doing her thing at headquarters? " 
"waiting in the Jeep, eyes and ears open. The impression is,


yeah, there are two of you, but it takes only one to pick up
directions for the boss." 


"And where will you be?" Chloe said. 
"On the phone to Chang and then to the kid at the airport. I want
that Rooster Tail gassed up and ready to go." 


"You going to tell him we'll have a prisoner with us?" 
"I'll play that by ear. If we don't find a weapon in George's
car, I've got one for him and one for me anyway. You've got your
side arms." 



"Think we'll need them?" 

"At least for show. There's nothing suspicious about a superiorofficer bringing armed staff with him on a 

visit like this." 

Chang hurried as casually as he could to his quarters during hisafternoon break and flew across his key 

board, trying to track his sister. She was better at this than heexpected. He wished only that she had let him in on it so hecould have helped pave the way. Maybe if she arrived somewhereand discovered he had pre 

cleared her for transport on assignment, she would 

know he was watching. 

Peacekeeper Chow was already in the system. Apparently "he" hadgotten out of Chicago and found himself a ride to Long Grove,
Illinois. Chang was glad his sister had avoided Kankakee and theold Glenview Naval Air Station. Though short-staffed likeeverywhere else, they had been burned by Judah-ites for the lasttime and were impossible to hoodwink. But Chang had never before 

seen anything on his system that mentioned even an airstrip inLong Grove. 

He finally found an executive runway that had recently beenreopened for limited commercial routes. With his break timerunning out, Chang contacted the tower there as a high-rankingofficial in the GC aviation administration, "requesting routineconfirmation of a 

Peacekeeper from international sector catching a ride 



on a commercial cargo plane bound for Pawleys Island, SouthCarolina. " 

Chang couldn't wait for the response and hurried back to hisdesk. There it became clear that Suhail Akbar himself was 
interrogating the first pilot to return from Petra. Chang couldonly assume that the second was also bound for Suhail's privateconference room. With a few keystrokes, he activated the bug inthat office to record, and later he would download it from thecentral system. 

Chloe appreciated that Hannah seemed sensitive enough to leaveher to her thoughts on the drive back in to Ptolemais. "You'reokay with my doing this, right" 

"Makes perfect sense," Hannah said. "If I was going to getchecked, this would be the place." 

Chloe tried to slow her pulse by breathing deeply and trying todoze. It didn't work, but she knew her life depended on what Macreferred to as her ability to play bored. Irritated was allright, if it came to that. But bored would play truest. 

Squadron headquarters was on the top three floors of a four-storybuilding with an abandoned first floor that appeared to have beensome sort of business. 

One of the men Chloe and Hannah had encountered on the street sat 
in the dark near the elevator at ground level, smoking andreading by the sliver of light from the street. He stood when hesaw her and saluted. 

"Elevator's broke, ma'am," he said. "You want the stairs therebehind you." 

"As you were. This your assignment?" 


"Yes, ma'am. Somebody's got to tell people or they'd wait all dayfor that thing." 
"No one thought of a sign?" 
"Yeah, but the commanding officer wants the personal touch. " 
She nodded. "He's the one I'm here to see. Could you 

tell him that Fr n-" 


The young man held up both hands. "I have no way to tell him,
ma'am. There's a receptionist up there." 
"Thought you people were understaffed." 
He shrugged. "Doing what I'm told, ma'am." 
The stairs led to a dingy, tiled room with about half the


fluorescent lights working. No one was at the receptionist'sdesk, but another Peacekeeper began to rise from the end of atired couch. Chloe stopped him with a wave. "What's your rolehere, son?" 

"GC Morale Monitor, ma'am. And telling people the receptionist is
not here." 
"I can see that." 
"Well, telling them she will be right back." 


"How soon is `right back'?" 
He looked at his watch. "Supposed to have been ten minutes ago,
so should be any minute now." 


"Couldn't you just as easily inform Commander Stefanich that Ms. 



Irene is here from Senior Commander Johnson's staff? " 
"Well, I could, ma'am, but I was instructed to-" 

"Just do it. I'll take the heat." 

"Yes, ma'am. Ms. who from what?" 

"Never mind, I'll find him," Chloe said, reaching for the door. 

"Oh, I can't let you do that, ma'am. Now, please. I'm sorry Iforgot your information." 

"Is your hand on your gun, Monitor?" she said. 

"No, ma'am, well, yes, ma'am, it is, but not on purpose. I " 

"Read my name badge, son, and get that memorized. Now all youhave to know is Senior Commander Johnson. " 

"Got it. One moment." 

Chloe shook her head. It was a wonder the GC accomplishedanything. The door had barely shut when it opened again and theMorale Monitor gestured her in with a nod. He pointed to aglassed-in office in a corner of the floor where the commandersat at his desk, a female underling stationed outside. "I have toget through her too?" Chloe said. 

"Yes, ma'am. That is the commander's secretary." 

Most of the other desks were empty, and the lights here wereintermittent too. It seemed all this commander had were enoughpeople to keep him buffered. Chloe strode toward the older womanin uniform. The woman smiled expectantly, but Chloe swept pasther. "Irene, Johnson's staff, to see Stefanich." 

The woman had no time even to protest. Nelson Stef anich looked 


startled and began to rise. 
"Hi, sorry, sir, but Senior Commander Johnson 


doesn't have time for me to work my way through all your layers.
You have some information for him?" 


"of course, but-" 
Chloe whipped out her leather bifold and produced her GC ID card.
"What do you need?" 


"well, I'd like to visit with Commander Johnson." Stefanich


sounded eastern European, she guessed Polish. 
"He sends his regrets. The GC brass would like this handled with
dispatch, and we understood you were prepared to-" 


"Sit down, Ms. Irene, please." 
"I really-" 
"Please, I insist." 
Chloe sat. 
"I had hoped to bring your commander up to speed on the ones we


chose for this assignment. We are very proud of their-" 


"Excuse me, sir, but we understand zero information has been
extracted from the rebel operative." 
"That's just a matter of time. He is highly trained military, and


we have been patient to this point." 
"Might I suggest that if your assignees were at the level you say
they are, Commander Johnson would not have had to come all this
way?" 



"Perhaps. But I am happy with what they have accomplished thusfar and plan to recommend them for-" 

"Do whatever you like, sir, but please send me back to my bosswith what he needs to make contact." 

Stefanich made a shove of pulling a file from his desk drawer,
but he did not hand it to Chloe. "Are you not 

aware of what happened today? This prisoner became immediatelyless valuable with the success of the attack." 

"I understood the results of that are not conclusive. If theywere, wouldn't it be broadcast internationally?" 

"There were technical difficulties. You will learn that millions 
of traitors are dead, including their leadership." 

"We still don't know where their headquarters are," Chloe said,
"or how much of the leadership might be left." 

"We have them narrowed to the Carpathian States. Even the rebelwould not refute that." 

"Sir, are you refusing a senior commander access to yourprisoner?" 

"No, I'm " 

"Because if you are, I will be the first to fall under hisdispleasure. But you will be next." She rose. "I'm already late,
but showing up empty-handed, well, I don't mind telling you, thatis going to fall on you." 

"Here you are," he said, offering the file. 

Chloe was moving toward the door. "You can put in for 


commendations for the locals you hired, but you won't be in aposition to award them if-" 

"Here, no, please," he said, smiling apologetically. 

Chloe stopped and looked at him with suspicion. "A folder? Idon't want a folder. All I need to give the commander aredirections to the prisoner." 

"That's what this is! Now, here!" 

Chloe stood with her hand on the doorknob, shaking her head. "Andyour people expect us." 

"Of course!" 

Chapter 

She stood with her lips pressed together, squinting at Stefanich.
She had come this far; she wasn't going to return to him. "Let'shave it, then." 

He sat reaching, offering the file. She stared him down. Finallyhe sighed and rose and approached her. Chloe snatched the folderand left. 

CHANG SAT fidgeting at his desk, pretending to work, unable toconcentrate. He was supposed to be coordinating flights andconvoys of equipment, food, and supplies from production plantsto the neediest areas. He had devised a way to make it appear hisinstructions were logical and complete, even efficient. But theactual transmissions caused no end of delays. Because of a glitchhe had introduced into the system, shipments were held for daysat remote locations, then delivered to the wrong places. Oftenthe wrong place for the GC meant the right place for the Co op orthe Trib Force. 


Chang had received a commendation for his work, somehow coveringhis tracks and avoiding having the problems traced to him.
Something was niggling at the back of his mind now, though.
Something didn't make sense. 

Ming had left a note informing the Chicago Tribulation Force thatshe was on her way to see her parents in China. If that was true,
why would she go east? It only made sense for her to find aflight to the West Coast. True, the major California cities wererubble and the big airports gone, but there were still manyplaces to fly out of. 

Chang considered feigning illness and taking the rest of theafternoon off, but he couldn't risk bringing attention tohimself. Too many Trib Forcers were in precarious positions. Heneeded to be in place for them without suspicion. He watched theclock. 

Buck sat with Kenny on his lap and chatted with Zeke and Leah. Itwas just after eight in the morning, and Leah was rifflingthrough stacks of messages and reports from Co op people all overthe world. Amazingly, the thing was largely working, even withthe tragedy of the seas. The sheer audacity of people without themark of loyalty transporting in their own vehicles giganticshipments of goods to one another, no money changing hands,
boggled the mind. 

"Do you know what you have in that wife of yours, Buck?" Leahsaid. 

Buck hadn't learned how to read Leah yet. He wanted to take thatas a straight out compliment, praise for Chloe. But did he detecta challenge? Was Leah implying he was insensitive, that he didn'tknow what he had in Chloe? "Yes, I think I do," he said. 

"I don't think he does, Kenny. Do you? Do you think he does?" 

"Does!" Kenny said. 


"Do you?" 
The baby giggled. 
"Do you know what you've got in that mommy of yours, sweetheart?


She's a genius. She " 


But Kenny heard "mommy" and began to squirm and repeat, "Mama.
Mama." 
"Thank you, Leah," Buck said. 
"I'm sorry," she said, and sounded as if she meant it. 
If she hadn't, Buck was prepared to add, "Brilliant. Real smart."


That was the effect Leah had on him. She appeared to be trying todistract Kenny by changing the subject, but she should have triedwith something that would interest him, not Buck. 

"I'm serious," she said. "You know what I've learned here? Chloeknows how many one thousand ton or larger oceangoing vesselsthere were in the world before the seas turned to blood." 

"You don't say." 
"Say!" Kenny said. 
"I do say," Leah said. "Can you guess?" 
"I don't know," Buck said. "Thousands, I suppose." 
"Can I guess?" Zeke said. 
"Z! " Kenny shouted. 
"I'm guessin' more'n thirty thousand." 
"Ships that big?" Buck said. "Sounds high." 
"He's right on the money," Leah said. "What, did Chloe tell you 



or something? How'd you know that?" 

Z couldn't hide a grin. "Yeah, she told me. But that's a prettygood memory, right?" 

Buck turned it over in his mind. "What happens to all thoseships?" he said. 

"Ruined," Leah said. "Dead in the water. Well, dead in the bloodanyway." 

"And if God lifts the judgment? The blood turns back to saltwater, then what?" 

She shook her head. "No idea. I can't imagine what it would taketo clean a ship of blood throughout its works." 

"And the dead fish," Z said. 

"Fish! " 

"Who could stand the smell? You don't see it on the news, butpeople who live on the coasts are trying to move. If nothingchanges, the smell will only get worse, and the disease and allthat. Ugh!" 

"Ug 

Buck let Kenny run off. "I can't imagine how Carpathia deals withthis. You can't spin it, can't gloss over it. Thousands are dyingevery day, and think of the crews marooned. They'll eventuallyall die. Hey, Leah, I did a piece a few years back on thesurprising dependence Panama had on its shipping industry. Whatdoes this do to a country like that?" 

She flipped through some sheets. "They're the only country withmore ships than Greece," she said. "It's got to bankrupt them." 


The mention of Greece made Buck check his watch. "Late afternoon 
there," he said. "If the plan is working, they ought to be readyto move in when it gets dark." 

"Why are they waiting? " 

Buck shrugged. "Mac thinks it gives them an advantage. He doesn'tknow what's going to unfold, but if they have to shoot their wayout or try to escape somehow, he figures they're a leg up in thedarkness." 

Leah sat staring, as if she wasn't listening. 

"Something on your mind?" Buck said. 

"I was expecting a call or an e mail by now. Chloe told me abusinessman had something he wanted to ship to Petra. Cheaphousing modules of some kind." 

"Yeah?" 

"Wealthy guy, made a killing in low cost housing, then became abeliever. He's really into the timing. Totally buys into Tsion'scharts and graphs, figures the Glorious Appearing exactly sevenyears from the original agreement between Carpathia and Israel." 

"Don't you?" 

"Sure. If Tsion told me today was yesterday, I'd believe it." Itwas clear she had lost her train of thought. "I miss him, Buck. Ipray for him constantly." 

"We all do." 

"Not like I do." 

"Yeah, I know." 


"What? " 
"I know. 
"You do?" 
"'Course," Buck said. "Just thinking about him makes you forget


what you were talking about." 
She looked embarrassed. "That's not true!" 
"Prove it. 
"We were, uh, talking about ships. Panama and Greece. " 
"We were onto modular housing, Leah." 
"We were, weren't we?" 
"We were. Now who is this guy and what do we need to hear from


him?" 
Leah stood and looked out a pinhole in the black paint that
covered the windows. "Not sure," she said. "He's from right here
in Illinois. Something Grove. Says we've got less than three and
a half years left, and he'd like us to help him figure a way to


get his inventory to Petra. Says they could build the houses
themselves in no time. You think he survived, don't you, Buck?" 
"Survived what?" 
"The bombing." 
"This guy was in Petra?" 
"Tsion! " 
"Oh, pardon me. We're back to him. Well, I'm just as concerned


about my father in law, and Chaim, and Abdullah, but yes, I do." 



"Do what?" 

"Think they survived." 

"We won't be able to tell from the news, will we?" 

"No. But Chang should know. He knows all." 

Chang had skipped lunch, so when his day was over he went back tohis quarters by way of the central mess and filled a bag withfood. There was so much he wanted to 

listen to, but top priority was tracking his sister. He didn'tknow if his parents were on the move or already in hiding, butthey would be vulnerable regardless, without the mark of loyalty.
He had sent them contact information on an underground church intheir province, but he had never heard back whether they had orwould try to make a connection. 

How would Ming find them if he didn't even know where they were?
And how long would it take her to get to China, heading east outof the United North American States? 

The mood was somber in the palace complex. Everyone seemed in ahurry to get to their quarters. It had been a strange day. Whohad not seen the attack on the rebels, and was anyone snowed bythe so-called technical difficulties that suddenly swept thecoverage from the air, just when the pilot clearly said hethought he saw people alive below? 

Chang casually glanced up and down the corridor, quickly enteredhis quarters, and locked the door. He ran his computer through aquick program that checked his room for bugs. It showed hissystems, installed by David Hassid and left for his use andsafekeeping, still secure and running normally. 

Chang wolfed down fruit and crackers, then checked his e-mail.
There was his confirmation, addressed to the bogus name he used 


as an operative of the Global Community aviation administration.
"Passenger, GC Peacekeeper Chang Chow from sector , riding with 

pilot Lionel Whalum, Long Grove, IL. Flight plan 

nonstop to Pawleys Island, South Carolina. Round trip for Whalum.
Mr. Chow's papers in order, destination San Diego, California.
Note: Whalum did not bear the mark of loyalty, but Mr. Chowasserted that he would see to it when they arrived in SouthCarolina." 

Chang fired off a thanks, then searched the database for flightsfrom Pawleys Island to San Diego. A flier scheduled for thatroute the next day rang a bell in Chang's mind. It was a Co-oppilot. So Ming was using Co-op people to get herself to China.
Was whalum Co-op too? He ran a search against Chloe's records.
Nothing. If he was Co-op, he hadn't been used yet, or at leastshe hadn't logged him. Maybe he used another name, or maybe Chloewas behind in entering her records. 

Chang checked the international GC database, and while the searchengine looked for Whalum, he finished eating. He came back to thecomputer to find a photo of and an entire page on Lionel Whalumof Long Grove, Illinois. The man was black, of African descent.
He and his wife and three kids had moved from Chicago to thesuburbs when his business became successful. He had won manycivic and business awards. His loyalty to the Global Communitywas listed as "unknown, but not suspicious." 

Chang switched to another database and copied information for aloyalty oath administration center at Statesville in Illinois.
Switching back to Whalum's records, he changed the loyaltydesignation to "confirmed," documented by the GC squadron inStatesville on the date Whalum had received his mark. If he was 
Co-op, that 

would take the heat off. And it ought to tip off Ming that Changwas watching out for her. 


A tone sounded on Chang's computer and scrolling type informedhim, and all other GC personnel, of "the unfortunate loss of bothpilots involved in the attack on rebel forces today. Due to piloterror, their payloads missed the target by more than a mile, andthe insurgents fired missiles that destroyed both planes. TheGlobal Community expresses its sympathy to the families of theseheroes and martyrs to the cause of world peace." 

Chang quickly flipped to the hangar manifests and found that bothmultimillion-Nick aircraft were back and accounted for. The 
morgue listed both pilots as "deceased remains delivered fromcrash sites in the Negev." Their personnel records had alreadybeen flagged in red with the date of their deaths. 

He called up the recording from Akbar's office around the timethe first flier would have returned. There was clear conversation 
with Akbar's secretary and the pilot being escorted to theconference room. A few minutes later came the pleasantries, theinvite to sit again. Then Suhail. "Good effort out there today,
man." 

"Thank you, sir," came the answer with a British accent. "Perfectexecution. Felt good." 

"I'm sorry. You're unaware then that your mission failed?" 

"Sir?" 

"That the outcome was negative?" 

"I don't follow, Director. Both incendiaries were bull's-eyes,
and the entire area was consumed, as ordered. 

When I turned for home, the missile had been launched, andaccording to what I heard-" 

"You seriously don't know that you missed your target. " 


"Sir, if the coordinates were correct, we did not miss. 
"There were no casualties, young man." 
"Impossible. I saw people there before we launched, and I saw


nothing but fire for several minutes before I left." 


"The effort was there, as I said. Unfortunately, human error
resulted in utter failure." 
"I don't . . . I'm not . . . I'm . . . at a loss, sir." 
"You will be demoted, and the party line is that you don't know


how such a significant oversight could have occurred. " 
"Begging your pardon, sir, but I am not convinced it occurred!" 
"I'm telling you it occurred, and that is what you will tell


anyone who wants to know." 
"I will not! Either you prove to me we missed our target or I


will maintain to everyone I know that this mission went off
without a hitch." 
"You will see in due tune reconnaissance photos that show no loss


of life in Petra." 
"You've seen these?" 
"Of course I have." 
"And you have no doubt as to their veracity?" 
"None, son." 
There was a long pause. The young man's voice 



sounded pitiful. "If there is one survivor on that mountain, it'sa miracle. You know what we dropped there. You ordered ityourself! It can't be explained away, and I won't take the heatfor it." 

"You already have. You and your compatriot will be reassigned,
and you know how to respond to " 

"I will not testify to something I don't believe, sir." 

"Come, come, mister. I see the on your hand and the image of ourleader. You're a loyal citizen. You contribute to the cause, you" 

"Would the potentate want me to say I made a mistake when Ididn't?" 

"But you did." 

"I did not." 

"His Excellency is most disappointed in you, son." 

"I'm not doing it, Director Akbar." 

"Excuse me?" 

"I won't play along. I take great pride in my work. I didn'tquestion the order. I believed these people were dangerous and athreat to the global Community. I did what I was instructed todo, and I did it right. No one can tell me we missed the primarytarget or that our s didn't waste that whole area and all thosepeople. If you have evidence that proves concretely that theysurvived, then I'm going to call it what it is. I'll accept nodemotion and I won't parrot a party line. If those people arestill alive, they're superior to us. If they are still alive,
they win. We can't compete with that." 

"You realize you leave me no choice." 


"We cannot have personnel shirk responsibility for their ownerrors." 

"You will not be able to silence me." 
Akbar laughed and was interrupted by the intercom. "Primary pilot
is waiting, sir" 


"Send him in." 


As soon as Chang heard the sound of the door, the Brit started
in. "Tell him, Uri. Tell him we didn't screw up." 
"what?" 
And the conversation began anew, Akbar blaming the failure on the


pilots, the Brit protesting, Uri silent for the moment. "Excuse
me a moment, gentlemen," Suhail said. The door opened and closed. 
"Kerry," Uri said, "listen to me. I de's right. The " 


"He's not right! I saw what I saw and I will never " 
"Shh! Listen! You and I both know we launched perfectly. But I
was there after you had gone. You heard my transmission. Those
people survived the Blues and the Lance, lived through it all." 


"Impossible!" 
"Impossible but true." 
"A miracle." 
"Obviously." 
"Then we must live with it, Uri. We must make the GC and the


world face it. They are a more than formidable enemy, and unlesswe admit that, we'll never have a chance to defeat them." 


"I agree. You heard me try to say it." 

"They took you off the air! Now they want to make us thescapegoats. Demote us. Make us admit failure." 

"Not me" Uri Said. 
"That's my man," the Brit said. 
They traded encouragement. 
"Be strong." 
"Don't give in." 
"Let's stick together." 
Chang checked Akbar's phone. 
Suhail had called the medical wing and asked for Dr. Consuela


Conchita. Only the day before Chang had read the staff bulletinannouncing her promotion to surgeon general of the GlobalCommunity. "Connie," Akbar said, "I need two heavy doses ofsedative, the quick stuff. My conference room, ASAP. I'll havesecurity here, in case the patients resist. And bring gurneysfrom the morgue." 

"The morgue?" 
"I want them cremated." 
"You're asking for lethal doses?" 
"No, no. I just want them out before they leave here, under


sheets. The cremation will do the rest, will it not?" 
"Kill them? Of course it will. You're asking that we execute two 



people?" 

"This is from the top floor, Consuela." 

A pause. "I understand." 

Chang grimaced as he listened to the recording of Akbar trying toconvince the fliers that he had asked for injections to help calmthem. Both began scuffling and shouting, and Chang could tellthey were held down and given the shots. And now they were gone.
Anyone who had seen either of them land in New Babylon and make 

their way from the hangar to the palace and to Akbar's officewould never admit it or mention it. They had been shot down bythe enemy, and that was that. 

Chang checked on the planes again. Already their serial numbershad been changed. And the original numbers were marked as lost inaction. Somehow the total number of operative GC fighter-bombersin New Babylon did not change. 

The story that had scrolled across Chang's screen would broadcastaround the world that night. No doubt Carpathia himself wouldexpress abject personal sorrow over the losses. 

Chang checked the records in. Greece and found that NelsonStefanich had forwarded location coordinates to "Howie Johnson's" 
team. It was a couple of hours yet till nightfall, when Macplanned to pay the visit. Chang had time to confirm Mac'sinstructions to the crew at the Ptolemas airport to refuel theRooster Tail and entered into the computer that Senior CommanderJohnson had been cleared at the highest levels to fly it to NewBabylon. 

That done, Chang found Stefanich's cell phone number and calledit in to Mac. "Got everything else you need?" Chang said. 

"Well, I'd still like to know the disposition of the 


"Oh, I will. Hey, Chang?" 

"Sir?" 

"Who's better than you?" 

"Thank you, sir." 

Finally, Chang was able to check his other recordings fromthroughout the day. He located the one emanating from Carpathia'soffice and backed up to several minutes before Nicolae, hissecretary Krystall, Leon Fortunato, Suhail Akbar, and Viv Ivinssat watching the feed from the cockpit of the initial fighter-
bomber. Suhail had just told the potentate he had arranged forhim to watch live, and Carpathia had expressed excitedanticipation. Chang sped through several minutes of setup and ofNicolae welcoming the various ones into the room. 

Then, pay dirt. Akbar informed Carpathia that the fighter-bomberswere set for takeoff from Amman, and that he could bring that upon the monitor, "if you wi sh. " 

"If I wish? Please!" 

"Palace to Amman Command," Suhail said. 

"Amman. Go ahead, Palace." 

"Initiate visual coverage of takeoff." 

"Roger that." 

Several seconds of silence. Then Carpathia. "Suhail, these arefighter-bombers? Is it an optical illusion? They look huge. " 

"Oh, they are, Eminence. They have been in service only a fewweeks. Notice how high they sit off the ground. The gear is the 


tallest of any fighter ever. It has 
"That is the bomb, underneath?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Talk about huge. It looks massive!" 
"Way too big to be carried internally, sir. It's four and a half


feet in diameter and eleven feet long. The thing weighs fifteen
thousand pounds." 


"You do not say!" 
"Oh, yes, sir. It's carried on what we call an underbelly
centerline station." 


"And what is it, Suhail? What are we serving the enemy today?" 
"The Americans used to call these Big Blue s. They are concussion
bombs. Eighty percent of their weight is made up of a gel


consisting of polystyrene, ammonium nitrate, and powdered
aluminum." 
"Is it as powerful as it is large?" 
"Excellency," Suhail said, "nothing but a nuclear weapon would be


more so. These are designed to detonate just a few feet off the
ground and generate a thousand pounds of pressure per square
inch. It should kill everything even the little creatures below
the ground in an area as large as two thousand acres. The
mushroom cloud alone will rise more than a mile. And we're 
dropping two." 


"Plus a missile." 
"Yes, sir." 
"Fire? " 



"Oh, Your Highness, that's the best part. Each concussion bombcreates a fireball six thousand feet in 

Chang recoiled at a loud hiss, and he imagined a nearly overcomeCarpathia inhaling deeply through his nose and exhaling throughclenched teeth. 

Later, when the pilots let loose their payloads, Nicolae said,
"Suhail! How quickly can we get this on television?" 
"I'm sure it's just a matter of a few switches, Excel " 
"Do it! Do it now!" 


Someone left the room. 
The recording was interrupted only with occasional outbursts from
Carpathia. "Ahh! Look! Ohh! Perfect! On target! Both of them. The
best revenge is success." 


"Absolutely." 
"And victory." 
"Yes, sir." 
"Total and complete," Nicolae said. 
Several grunted. 
A loud sigh ended in a hum. It reminded Chang of a lion he had


seen at the zoo in Beijing. It had just gorged itself on severalpounds of raw beef, roared, yawned and stretched, settled itswide chin on its paws, and sighed like that, followed by a lowrumbling from deep inside. 

For several minutes they watched, and occasionally someonecongratulated Nicolae. "Finally, Your Lordship." That was Viv 


Ivins. Carpathia did not respond, making Chang wonder if she wasstill in his doghouse. 

To all the other compliments he merely said, "Thank you. Thankyou." 

The suggestion from the primary pilot to abort the missile launchwas immediately rejected by Suhail. 

"Yes," Nicolae said in the background. "Very good, DirectorAkbar. The final dart." 

When the pilot sounded insubordinate, Suhail immediatelycountered. Then silence, finally broken by Carpathia. "Was Ihearing things, or did he dare cross you?" 

"He came right to the edge, Excellency." Reprimand him!" Leonsquawked. 

"I do not believe he meant for me to hear it. He is watching inperson what we are seeing on a screen. Of course it sounds likeoverkill to him." 

"But still . . . ," Leon said. 

Someone shushed him. 

When the missile hit and the pilot began his halting,
disbelieving commentary, Chang heard a chair roll back as ifsomeone had stood suddenly. 

"What?!" That was Nicolae. 

"Impossible!" Fortunato. 

"Cut the feed!" Carpathia said, and Akbar repeated it, loud. 

Footsteps away from the table and, Chang assumed, toward themonitor. The door opening. The sounds of people leaving,
evidently everyone but Nicolae and Suhail. 


"Two of our largest incendiary bombs?" Carpathia whispered. "Yousaid one was more than enough." 

"It should have been." 

"We saw the flames, watched them burn, for how long 

"Long enough." 

Several minutes of relative silence, during which Chang 

believed he heard Carpathia panting. And when the potentatefinally spoke, he sounded desperate and short of breath. "Listento me, Suhail." "Yes, sir. " "Are you listening?" "I am, sir."
"Deal with those pilots. They missed. They failed. Their eyesdeceived them. Do not allow this victory to go to the Judah-ites.
Do not." "I hear you, sir." "Then contact the other nine regionalpotentates, personally, on my behalf. Tell them the Judah-iteshave raised arms against us and have dealt a severe blow. Weshall retaliate. I told them this only recently." "You did, sir."
"But the time is now; the budget is limitless. I will sanction,
condone, support, and reward the death of any Jew anywhere in theworld. I want this done as a top priority, by any means. Imprisonthem. Torture them. Humiliate them. Shame them. Blaspheme theirgod. Plunder everything they own. Nothing is more important tothe potentate. Do you understand?" "I do " 

"Go quickly. Do it now." "Yes, sir." "And Suhail?" "Sir?" "SendReverend Fortunato in." In seconds, Leon came bustling. "Oh.
Highness, I don't know what to say. I can't understand it. Whatwent-" 

"My dear Most High Reverend Fortunato. Kiss my hand. " "How may Iserve you, Potentate? I kneel before you." "Be still and hear me.
Are you still my most trusted devotee "Oh, yes, Supre " "Shh my 


Reverend Father of Carpathianism?" "I am, sincerely." "Leon, doyou love me?" "You know I do." "Do you cherish me?" "with all my" 
"Do you worship me?" "Oh, my beloved-' 

"Stand up, Leon, and hear me. My enemies mock me. They performmiracles. They poison my people, call sores down on them fromheaven, turn the seas into blood. And now! And now they survivebombs and fire! But I too have power. You know this. It isavailable to you, Leon. I have seen you use it. I have seen youcall down lightning that slays those who would oppose me. "Leon,
I want to fight fire with fire. I want jesuses. Do you hear me?"
"Sir?" "I want messiahs." "Messiahs?" "I want saviors in myname." "Tell me more, Excellency." "Find them thousands of them.
Train. them, raise them up, imbue them with the power with whichI have 

blessed you. I want them healing the sick, turning water to bloodand blood to water. I want them performing miracles in my name,
drawing the undecided, yea, even the enemy away from his god andto me." 

"I will do it, Excellency." 

"Will you.) " 

"I will if you will empower me." 

"Kneel before me again, Leon." 

"Lay your hands on me, risen one. " 

"I confer upon you all the power vested in me from above andbelow the earth! I give you power to do great and mighty andwonderful and terrifying things, acts so splendiferous andphantasmagorical that no man can see them and not be persuadedthat I am his god." 


Leon sobbed. "Thank you, lord. Thank you, Excellency. " 
"Go, Leon," Carpathia said. "Go quickly and do it now. " 

Page Blank 

Chapter 

GEORGE FELT pretty good, considering. How long had it been sincethey had put him in the backseat of the jeep? He was opposite thedriver's side with Elena in front of him, Plato beside him. Theleader slid in behind the wheel and told Plato to blindfold 
George again. George liked the fact that he was again sitting onhis hands, giving him an excuse to bounce and tumble into Plato.
If he timed it right, maybe he could even bang heads with him. 

The leader backed up the Jeep and stopped, idling. 

"Where is he?" he asked, testy. 

"There, by the road." 

"What is he doing there?" A loud sigh. "Socrates! Come here!"
George heard the hobbling footsteps. "Are you finished with thecar?" 

"Hidden Aristotle" 

"Give me the keys." 
"Why? What if I need it?" 
"That will ruin everything! Give them to me." 
George heard the jangling as Aristotle took the car keys. "Think, 



man!" he said. "This way, no matter what happens, you have nokeys to surrender. And stay away from the road! You have noreason to be outside. Just wait in there." Aristotle lowered his 
voice, as if thinking a blind Sebastian couldn't hear either.
"Remember, the closer you come to the edge, the more believableyou are." 

"You know I can do it." 

"You know I do! You can still produce tears at will? Take itright to the brink. It has to look like you tried everythingbefore you crumbled. Now, I am sorry you are hurt, but this isjust as important as what we are doing." 

"Right. This one's real name is Elena, last initial A. Hmm, theonly one whose actual name is given. Guess they don't feel anyneed to protect her. Then a couple of no-account locals, both ofwhich it looks like tried to get out of Peacekeeping duty butwound up on this vigilante squad. Oh, get a load of thesemonikers." 

"One of them's the leader, Mac," Hannah said, pointing. 

Mac shook his head. "Aristotle. Other one's Socrates. Real 
creative. Given this, shouldn't Elena be Helen? Of Troy, get it?
And the big guy, the one that's supposed to pass for George.
Plato? Oh, for the love of all things sacred! Well, whatever yougotta do to keep track of each other. He's French. Brought injust for this. Sebastian would be insulted. This guy's heavy, buthe's under sixtwo. He's no George." 

Mac kept glancing at his watch, and as night fell, they keptreading, memorizing. They finally had to resort to the dome lightand three tiny flashlights. "The original plan wasn't half bad,"
Chloe said. "Only somebody didn't cooperate." 

"I don't know the boy or the other old guy, the driver," Macsaid. "But from what I know of Miklos, my money's on him. Anyway, 


somebody smelled a rat. They were supposed to pick up the girleight kilometers north of the airport, then have Plato,
pretending to be Sebastian, show up just down the road." 

"But Sebastian was expecting to hook up with them closer to theairport," Hannah said. 

"They must've wanted to be sure the deal was done 

before he came looking," Mac said. "They're pretty proud of thischange of plans. Looks like they originally wanted to take 'emall in, including George, and then threaten to kill the others ifGeorge wouldn't talk. Then, even if he did, they were gonnaexecute 'em together if they wouldn't take the mark." 

Chloe had turned the page slightly. "Did we know this?" she said. 

"What's that?" Mac said. 

"The shootings, all three of them, were done by the girl. " 

Chloe had that tingling sensation inside as the zero hour drewnear. Mac had studied the coordinates and determined they wereabout forty minutes from where George was being held. At hours 
he called Stefanich on his private cell phone with the numberprovided by Chang. 

Early in the afternoon in Chicago, Buck and Enoch called theirpeople together. "Quick update," Buck said. "Chang has a trace onMing, and it appears she's probably on her way to San Diego. Thenon to China. Problem is, he doesn't know where their parents are,
so she couldn't either far as we know." 

"How'd she get to San Diego?" Alble said. 

"The long way. Guess she got a ride with some private pilot out 


of Long Grove to South Carolina, then was able to-" 


"Whoa!" Leah said. "Hold on! Long Grove?" 
"Yeah. Then she-" 
"Buck! Was the pilot this whalum guy?" 
"I don't know. The point is, she-" 
"The point is, if it is him, he's the guy who wants to ship


housing modules to Petra." 
That stopped Buck. "I don't get it." 
"She might be going to Petra." 
"She'll never make it. Security's too tight." 
"Tell me about it." 
"Maybe she just caught a ride with a guy who's going on to Petra,


but she isn't." 
"That's worth praying about," Leah said. 
"That's why we're here." 
"So Ming used a Co-op contact. . ." 
"Can we move on here, Leah?" 
"Sure, but we haven't even checked him out yet. Don't know if


he's legit. And here I thought when Ming was reading through all


these records that she was just helping out. " 
Buck cocked his head at Leah. "Weren't you the one who said Ming
was an adult and free to do what she wants? " 



Mac was surprised when the phone rang four times. GC policy was
that command officers always be available to the brass. 


"This is Nelson Stefanich," he heard finally, "and the 


only reason I'm answering a call from a hidden number is because


of a current operation, so state your business." 
"well, Nelly diggin'-a-ditch Stefanich, how in the world are ya ?
" 


"Who-? " 
"Sorry I missed ya today. Howie Johnson, here." 
"Yes, sir, Commander. Have we met?" 
"Naw, but I hear such good things about ya, I feel like I know


ya, know what I mean?" 
"Thank you, sir." 
"'Preciate the info you gave my aide today." 
"No problem." 
"we're 'bout ready to roll here, Nels, and I just wanted to give


you a heads-up so you can let your guy Aristotle know we're on
our way. I'm assumin' your phone's secure. " 


"Of course, Commander." 
"Good, good. Now I don't want them gettin' spooked. They should
be expecting us and not start shootin' the minute they hear us.
We want to protect them too, so we won't be drivin' right to
their door. We'll approach on foot and when we're within range
I'll give out two loud whistles. They should respond with one, 



and we'll know it's safe to come on ahead."

 Got it. You whistle twice; they whistle once." 

"And they understand that as soon as I'm on the scene, I am theranking officer." 

"Oh, yes, sir. Absolutely." 

"Pretty creative, the code names, by the way." 

"Thank you. I--- " 

"Right. This one's real name is Elena, last initial A. Hmm, theonly one whose actual name is given. Guess they don't feel anyneed to protect her. Then a couple of no-account locals, both ofwhich it looks like tried to get out of Peacekeeping duty butwound up on this vigilante squad. Oh, get a load of thesemonikers." 

"One of them's the leader, Mac," Hannah said, pointing. 

Mac shook his head. "Aristotle. Other one's Socrates. Real 
creative. Given this, shouldn't Elena be Helen? Of Troy, get it?
And the big guy, the one that's supposed to pass for George.
Plato? Oh, for the love of all things sacred! Well, whatever yougotta do to keep track of each other. He's French. Brought injust for this. Sebastian would be insulted. This guy's heavy, buthe's under sixtwo. He's no George." 

Mac kept glancing at his watch, and as night fell, they keptreading, memorizing. They finally had to resort to the dome lightand three tiny flashlights. "The original plan wasn't half bad,"
Chloe said. "Only somebody didn't cooperate." 

"I don't know the boy or the other old guy, the driver," Macsaid. "But from what I know of Miklos, my money's on him. Anyway,
somebody smelled a rat. They were supposed to pick up the girl 


eight kilometers north of the airport, then have Plato,
pretending to be Sebastian, show up just down the road." 

"But Sebastian was expecting to hook up with them closer to theairport," Hannah said. 

"They must've wanted to be sure the deal was done 

"How 
"Firing squad." 
"It took a squad to shoot a teenage girl?" 
"Squad is a euphemism we use, sir." 
"I'm listening." 
"Anyone past a certain level is authorized to attack enemy


personnel with extreme prejudice." 
"Shoot them dead?" 
"Exactly." 
"And then whoever did it shares the credit with the rest of the 


team? The squad?" 
"Right." 
"You shot her, didn't you, Commander?" 
"Yes, sir, I did." 
"Well, that showed remarkable, almost indescribable, fortitude


there, Nelson." 
"Thank you, sir." 



"I know you did it on behalf of and with the deep gratitude of
the Global Community, starting right at the top." 


"Thank you very much." 
"Don't thank me, Commander Stef anich. The fact is that I wish I
could personally reward you for that act-" 


"Merely doing nay duty, sir-" 
"Pay you back, as it were, for that service to the cause." 
"Tell, I don't know what to say. That would be just-" 
"All right, Nelly, time's a wastin' here. You inform the Greek


philosophers and their lady friend that we'll drop by to see 'em
in a bit, hear?" 


"Will do. Uh, sir?" 


"I'm here," Mac said. 


"We're hoping you can help, of course, but you need to know we're
pretty happy with this operation." 


"Oh, I can see how you would be." 


"Well, I may have read something into it, but I got the
impression from your aide that you might want to express some
impatience with the crew because the prisoner has not yet been
forthcoming. We're planning to honor them for what they've
accomplished." 


"I hear you, Commander. I wouldn't worry about that. I think it's
fair to say that we want to respond proactively to their actions
as well." 



"We'll want to give thanks also, of course, for the miracle atPetra today," Buck said. "That two experienced pilots could misswith such huge bombs at such close range, well, praise the Lord." 

The others laughed. "Yes," Alble said, "and for the fact thatsomehow all the people caught fire anyway, well, talk aboutamazing." 

"But seriously," Buck said, "God is acting in ways beyonddescription, and we never want to take for granted his power andsovereignty, his care for us, his protection of our loved ones." 

And with that, several kneeling at the safe house beganspontaneously to pray and praise the Lord. Enoch led in 

and sisters Mac, Chloe, and Hannah, as they undertake a dangerousmission. Protect them, go before them, send angels to guard them,
and may they bring our brother from California out safely so wecan all thank him and rejoice with them." 

Chloe was grateful when Mac turned in his seat and held out anopen palm to her and to Hannah. They both grabbed hold, and heprayed. It wasn't long, and it wasn't eloquent. But it was Mac,
and he sounded as if he knew who he was talking to. And thatsettled Chloe. A little. Temporarily. 

When Mac pulled to within what he said should be a half mile fromtheir destination, Chloe was glad for the chance to get out ofthe vehicle. The ground was uneven but not bad, and she knew ashort hike would be good for her nerves. They all turned offtheir cell phones and carried them in their left rear pockets.
Tiny walkietalkies were set to a unique frequency, set on Low,
and carried in the right rear pockets. 


Chloe took the safety off the ancient Luger on her right hip, andHannah unsnapped the leather strap over the grip of her Glock.
The three of them strapped loaded Uzis on their right shouldersso they hung near their rib cages. 

Mac tossed Chloe the DEW from the trunk, and she angled it overher left shoulder. He handed Hannah a small, heavy canvas bagwith extra clips for the Uzi and 

several rounds for the fifty-caliber rifle, which Mac wrestledvertical, the feet of the bipod pointing away from 

him. He supported the four-foot-long, thirty-five-pound weapon bycradling the butt in his right palm and wrapping his left handaround the stock. 

"Good thing I'm in reasonable shape for one of my vintage," hesaid. "Pushin' sixty, and I can still outrun either one of ya ifthe course is long enough." 

"Not carrying that thing," Hannah said, and Chloe noticed thequaver in her voice. It was comforting to 

know she was not the only one scared to death. 

"Don't bet on it," Mac said, deftly reaching up with his leftfoot and slamming the trunk. He held out his compass towardHannah's flashlight and started off. "Follow me, ladies." 

Mac's boots crunched a steady pace, and Chloe soon found herselfperspiring and breathing heavily. But she felt good, and Hannahappeared able to keep up too. 

The work did not, however, take Chloe's mind off the danger. Thebluffs had worked well so far. Maybe too well. If this were goingto be easy, they wouldn't be so heavily armed. 


Chang tracked Ming to San Diego and noticed she would not beflying out of there until early evening, West Coast time. Hecalled her cell phone. 

"Hello, Chang," she said. 
"Where are you?" 
"Is this a test? Do you think I'm going to try to convince you


I'm at the safe house in Chicago?" 
"You have to know I've talked to them." 
"Of course. And I can tell from the benefits to my pilots that it


didn't take you long to track me." 
"But where are you specifically, Ming, and what are you doing?" 
She sighed. "I am in a tiny charter terminal south of San Diego.


My papers and my look are working perfectly. No one asks to seemy mark because I am in uniform, and when the pilots see mybeliever's mark, they become very protective. " 

"You don't tell them who you are, do you?" 
"Yes, Chang. I am a fool. No! Of course not. Why burden them with
something that could bring them trouble? They cannot be held
responsible for what they do not know. This is the perfect cover.
They are helping the Global Community by transporting an


employee. They know secretly I'm a believer, but they don't know
I'm a woman, or former GC, or AWOL." 
CC Ming, you know Father and Mother are not at home." 
"I assumed." 
"Then how will you find them?" 
"I will ask around, in my official capacity. Maybe I will arrest 



them." 
"You have not thought this through." 
"I have, Chang. More than you know. They have to contact you


somehow before I get there. You can tell them I am coming and we
can set a meeting place." 
"why didn't we try to arrange this before you left?" 


"Because you would have refused. You think you know so much.
Well, you do. But you don't know everything, or you would know
that I cannot sit in a safe house while my parents flee for their
lives. Do we know they are true believers, or have we just talked
them out of taking the mark of loyalty? I must know. I must get
them together with believers. I know I cannot save their lives or
even my own. But I have to do something." 


Chang was moved. So she had thought it through. Maybe not every
detail. Maybe not strategy. But who could? 


"You must let me know where you are as soon as you get there," he
said. 


"You love me, don't you, Chang?" 


"Of course." 


"We never tell each other. We never have." 


"I know," he said. "But we know we do." 


"You cannot say it." 


"Yes, I can," he said, "but even thinking about it makes me
emotional, and I must not allow that. Not right now." 


"You, emotional? Impossible." 



"Don't say that, Ming. If you say that, you don't know me." 

"I'm sorry, Chang. I was teasing you. " 

"well the truth is, sister, I do love you." Chang immediatelyteared up, and he felt a lump in his throat. "I love you with allmy heart, and I worry about you and pray for you." 

"Thank you China. Don't now. It's all right. I didn't 

want to make you uncomfortable. And anyway, I know. I know, okay?
I love you too and pray for you often. You do need to stayrational and practical, so don't worry about me." 

"How can I not?" 

"Because I go with God. He will protect me. And if he decides mytime is up, it won't be that long before I see you again anyway." 

"Don't say that!" 

"Come, come, Chang. It's all right. You know it's true. There areno guarantees anymore, except we know where we are going. I willcall you from China. I will be hoping for good news about Fatherand Mother." 

After about ten minutes' walking, Chloe moved aside and letHannah fall in behind Mac. Hannah gave her a long look in the lowlight, as if to ask if she were all right. "It's okay," Chloesaid. "I'll be right behind you." She'd had a little troublestaying with Mac, but she decided if she was behind Hannah she'dbe more motivated. If Hannah could stay with Mac, she could too. 

And she was right. Chloe didn't want to give either of them theidea she was petering out. In fact, she didn't believe she was.
They were on a gravel road now, and she had a rhythm going andher breathing was steady and deep. She was sweating through her 


clothes, but Mac and Hannah had to be doing the same. 

Finally Mac held up his right hand briefly before have 

ing to get it under the fifty caliber again. He slowed andstopped, moving to the side of the road and turning to face thewomen. "Everybody okay?" 

They both nodded. 

"Anybody need a breather?" 

Though panting, both shook their heads. 

"Almost there," he said, and they started uphill. Just over arise Mac knelt and lay the fifty caliber on the ground. He made aV with his fingers under his eyes, then pointed through aclearing to a small, wood shack. A faint light shone through thesliver between a shade and one window in the front. He took the 
directed energy weapon from Chloe and leaned it against a tree. 

Mac motioned that they should follow him around back. Chloe wassurprised how wide he made the arc, staying in the shadows andsomehow walking so quietly she could barely hear his boots on thesoil. When her Uzi brushed the handle of the Luger, it made amuted scraping sound and she held her breath. Mac stopped andhalf turned. Chloe had to resist the urge to raise her hand inacknowledgment and apology. She set herself again, and they creptaround the back, where trees blotted any light from the stars andthe shack was totally dark. 

Mac squatted about forty feet behind the place. "I don't likeit," he whispered. "Only one vehicle, and that looks like mine,
so it's likely the one Sebastian got from the GC pool at theairport. And does that place look like it's got five people init? I mean, I know they're hiding out, but . . . " 


"You lost me already," Hannah said between gulps of air. "I don'tsee any vehicles." 

Mac put a hand on her shoulder and turned her toward the side ofthe shack, where a small white car sat mostly hidden inunderbrush. Hannah nodded. Chloe hadn't seen it either. "Maybeyour eyes aren't adjusted to the light yet," Mac said, as if hemeant it. Chloe nearly laughed aloud. They had all been traipsingaround in the dark. 

Mac slipped the Uzi off his shoulder and lay it on the ground. Hepulled what looked like a utility tool from a vest pocket. "Iknow this is gonna sound like a cowboy movie," he said, "butcover me." 

Before Chloe could ask where he was going, he moved quickly tothe car and went to work on the trunk lock. Every time he made asound loud enough for the women to hear, he stopped dead andremained motionless a few seconds. Eventually came the thump ofthe lock giving way, and the trunk lid sprung free. Mac kept ahand atop it so it wouldn't fly open. 

He snaked his other hand in as far as he could, then finally hadto let the lid rise another half inch or so. That triggered thetrunk light, so he lowered the lid again. He set the tool on theback bumper, reached in, and held the lid down with his lefthand, feeling around inside with his right. Once he found what hewas looking for he quickly pulled his hand out, grabbed the tool,
reached back in, let the trunk up enough to give himself room tomaneuver, and as the light came on ground the tool into the bulb,
breaking it and dousing the light. 

Now he let the lid open all the way, silently, and felt aroundinside the trunk. From where she waited, it looked to Chloe as ifthe whole top half of his body was inside. 

Suddenly he stopped and backed out, quietly shutting the trunk 


and hurrying back. "Just as I thought," he said. "Check it out." 

"A twelve gauge," Hannah said. "Learned to use one when I was akid." 

"These GIs love their shotguns," Mac said. "Leaves a DEW and aFifty in the plane, brings his double barrel on the job. Andbrilliant as this hostage team is supposed to be, they don't evensearch his car." 

"We going in?" Hannah said. 

"Yeah, but I still don't like it. Half of 'em take off when theyfound out we were comin', or what?" 

He clearly wasn't expecting an answer. Mac handed the shotgun toHannah. "Makes a lot of racket when you cock it, so do it when Iwhistle." 

He picked up the Uzi, and they followed him back around to thefront and the darkest area they could find, about twenty feetleft of the door. Mac nodded to Hannah and whispered, "On three."
He counted with his fingers and whistled shrilly twice whileHannah expertly, and noisily, cocked the shotgun. 

From inside the shack came hurried movement, heavy steps, onelouder than the other, like someone limping. The door squeakedopen a couple of inches and someone whistled. Or tried to. It wasmostly air. Then came the second try. 

"All right!" Mac shouted, so loud Chloe jumped. "You know who itis, so show yourself and let us in." 

The door opened in and struck the man or his weapon as he triedto get out of the way. "Right this way," he said with a heavyaccent. 

Mac marched straight toward the door, and Chloe noticed he had a 


finger on the Uzi trigger. "Senior Commander Howie Johnson comin'through with officers Irene and Jinnah. Stand aside,
Peacekeeper." 

The man, clearly favoring one leg, hopped back against the wall,
warily eyeing them and nodding a greeting. 

"So which one are you?" Mac said. "Hercules? Constantinople ?
Who?" 

"Socrates, sir." 

"Well, sure ya are. Awright, where is everybody, particularly myprisoner?" 

"Not here, sir." 

Mac looked as if he were about to explode. He tilted his headback till his chin pointed at the ceiling. "Not here, sir," hemimicked. He brought his eyes down to Socrates. "That's all Igit? Where are they?" 

"They told me to tell you to read the fine print." That took asecond to register with Chloe, and from Mac's look, with him too. 

Mac dramatically moved past Socrates, flattening him against thewall again. He strode to the front door and kicked it shut sohard the window rattled and an echo came back from the trees. Mac 
turned on the man. "The fine print in what? You think I broughtthe Sebastian file with me into the woods?" 

I die!" Nothing. His shoulders slumped and he bowed his head,
weeping. 

Mac knelt and put a hand on Socrates' arm. "They're not that faraway, are they?" 


"I am only telling you what they " 
"Why don't you just tell me what the fine print says?" 
"They gave me this duty because I slow them down. I was attacked


by the prisoner and he injured me with a kick to the " 


"I asked you about the fine print, man! What'd I miss? What's the
message?" 
"That they have the right to move the prisoner at any time


without informing the GC until " 
"Where are they, Peacekeeper? Where did they go?" 
"They do not have to inform their superiors until they have


reached their des " 
"Do you know where they are?" 
"They thought they heard something long before it should have


been you, so " 


"You understand English, Socrates. I know you do. Do you know
where they are? " 
"I believe the reason they did not tell me was because " 
"You want me to believe they left you here alone to greet me and


didn't tell you where they'd be?" 
"Because if I didn't know, I could not tell the wrong person. " 
"I hope you're lying." 
"Sir ?" 
"I hope you're lying, because then you can change your mind about


telling me before you die." 



"Commander, I do not know!" 

"Officer jinnah, show Socrates what a twelve gauge does to thefront door." 

Chloe wondered if Mac was serious. Apparently Hannah did not. Shelifted the shotgun toward the door with one hand, and as soon asthe barrel was parallel to the floor, fired. It was as if a bombhad gone off. Chloe was deafened, but nothing was wrong with hereyes. A gaping hole appeared in the door, and the entire thingblew off its hinges and landed several feet from the shack. 

"The next one goes in your face, Socrates." 

"But, sir!" he cried. "I " 

"Then get on your squawk box and tell your people I want to knowwhere my prisoner is, and I want to know now!" 

"But they " 

"Kill him, Jinnah. " 

Hannah raised the shotgun as quickly and forthrightly as she hadbefore, and Socrates immediately tumbled to the floor, tearsstreaming. "Wait! Wait!" He dug a walkie talkie from his pocket,
dropping his weapon in the process. "Socrates to Plato, come in,
come in. Hello? Plato? I know you can hear me! Please! I needyou!" 

Mac shook his head as if he had no choice. "Jinnah?" 

"No! Please! Wait! Elena! Elena, are you there? Come in now,
please. I am not joking! Answer me! Aristotle! Aristotle, theywill kill me! I know I was not supposed to call you, but I don'tcare! Please, please come in or 


He shook his head, sobbing. 
"They're close by, aren't they?" 
He nodded. "You might as well kill me, because I die either way." 
"What are you saying?" 
"They said not to contact them, no matter what. Don't tell, no


matter what." 
"But they didn't mean not to tell me, did they? Surely not. They


meant if they were right about the sounds. If the wrong people
showed up. They're not afraid of GC, are they?" 
The man shrugged. "I don't know. Maybe I do not understand. But I


am a dead man." 
"Then what difference does it make if you tell me?" 
Socrates seemed to think about it. He scooted back against the


wall and wiped his eyes. He put his walkietalkie back into hispocket. When he reached for his weapon, Mac said, "Just let thatlie." 

Socrates seemed to be trying to catch his breath. 
"Were they close enough to hear the shot?" Mac said. 
"No. Maybe." 
"How close?" 
"Five hundred meters east. There is a lean to garage." 
Mac sat in an ancient stuffed chair. "Then they heard you calling


for them." 



Socrates nodded. 

"And they left you to die."

 blank 

Chapter 

THE CELEBRATING, singing, and dancing at Petra continued into thedark of night. People by the thousands filed into the new pool tosubmerge themselves and to drink directly from the wide spring inthe middle. Manna covered the ground, and Rayford was nearlywoozy from its refreshing taste. 

"Eating directly from God's table," he told Abdullah, "wassomething I never expected in this lifetime." 

Abdullah looked overwhelmed with joy. "How can this be, Captain?
How dare we be so blessed?" The wording was lost on Rayford, buthe knew what his friend meant. 

A young woman, probably not yet twenty, approached. "Rayf ordSteele?" she said shyly. 

Rayford stood. "Yes, dear." 

"Two things, if I may," she said, speaking very slowly andholding up two fingers. "You understand?" 

"Yes, what is it?" 



"Is it true you speak only English?" 

"To my shame, yes. Well, a smattering of Spanish. Not enough to

converse." 

"Do not feel bad, sir. I speak only Hebrew." 

"Well, your English is lovely too, young lady." 

"You do not understand." 

"I understand you perfectly. You speak English beautifully." 

She laughed. "You do not understand." 

Abdullah leaned in, chuckling. "And you are funny, young one.


Speaking Arabic and yet talking about knowing only Hebrew. And


Rayford, how is it you know Arabic?" 
The girl threw back her head and laughed again. "We all speak in
our own languages and understand each other perfectly. " 


"What?" Rayford said. "Wait!" 


"Sir! I speak only Hebrew." 


"And Arabic," Abdullah corrected. 


"But no. I was forbidden to learn Arabic." 


"I need to lie down," Abdullah said. 


"You said there were two things," Rayford said. 


"Yes," she said, holding up two fingers again. 


"Two " 


Rayford put a hand over her fingers. No need. I understand you." 



She laughed. "The second thing," and now she spoke more quickly,
"is that Drs. Rosenzweig and Ben Judah request an audience withyou." 

"With me? I should request an audience with them! I'm sure theyare very busy." 

"They asked me to fetch you, sir." 

Rayford followed her over piles of rock that had been blown topieces by the bombs. Just inside a cave, by light from a torchlodged in the wall, Chaim and Tsion sat with several older men.
Tsion introduced Rayford all around and said, "The one we havebeen telling you about." 

The men nodded and smiled. "Praise the Lord, Rayford," Tsionsaid. 

"Continually," Rayford said. "But forgive me if I am preoccupied.
" 

Tsion nodded again. "I too await word from our compatriots inGreece, and yet even now, the Lord quiets me with his peace andconfidence." 

"He may be trying to communicate the same to me, brother,"
Rayford said, "but that one of them is my daughter may affect myfaith." 

Tsion nodded again and smiled. "Possible. But after what yousurvived here today, is it not fair to say that any breakdown incommunication between you and the Lord has to be your fault?" 

"Well, that goes without saying." 


"Oh, by the way, I am speaking Hebrew, and you are " 

"I know, brother. I have been all through that with the younglady." 

The others laughed and one said, "My daughter!" 

"Lovely. " 

"Thank you!" 

"Chaim and I have been talking with these brothers about plans,"
Tsion said. "We will be praying for the Tribulation Force membersall over the world and are eager to see how God delivers them.
But everyone needs accountability, and as Chaim and I areaccountable to you, we " 

"Oh, Tsion, no! Surely we're way past that! You've been thespiritual leader of the Tribulation Force for some time, and ofthe worldwide church of Christ for almost as long." 

"No, now, Rayford, hear me." 

"Begging your pardon, sir, you always flattered me by deferringto me as the titular leader of the Trib Force, but please . . ." 

"These men, Rayford, are a good start for us here. They are thecore of a group of elders I hope will eventually arise to helpChaim with the daily decisions. But they are, naturally, new tothe faith." 

"As I am, Tsion. Surely you're not suggesting " 

"Excuse me, Rayford, but you forget. None of us is terriblymature in the faith. In years anyway. I am not going to insultyour intelligence by implying that I will seek your counsel on 


the Scriptures, though I cannot deny I have learned from you. ButGod put you in a strategic place for me at a very dark time in mylife. If you do not mind, I would like to run past you somethoughts regarding the immediate future and get your feedback." 

"If you insist, but at least concede that it was 

not I who stood in the midst of a million people and saw God


miraculously spare them from the fires of hell. " 
Tsion looked at him with a twinkle in his eye, then turned to the
other men. They laughed uproariously.


 Chaim pointed at Rayford and chortled. "Was it 
not you? Then my eyes fail me!" Ire turned to Ben 
Judah. "Tsion! Did I not see this very man standing 
in the midst of us, and could he have not seen what 
God did?" 
"Well, okay," Rayford said. "Point taken. But I was not the

reason the enemy attacked, Tsion. You and Chaim were. And I was
not preaching, not praying, not standing there full of faith when
the bombs fell. Truth be told, my faith is stronger in the
aftermath than it was in the fire." 


Tsion fell serious and ran a hand through his beard, studying


Rayford. "You would make a good Israeli," he said. 
Rayford shrugged. "Zeke was going for the Egyptian look, but
whatever." 



"No, I mean you argue like my countrymen. We could debate all
night. And even when you are wrong, still you argue. 
" 


That brought more laughter from the others. 
"All right, Tsion. I don't know why you would want to hold
yourself accountable to one you find it so easy to ridicule " 


"All in good fun, my dear brother. You know that." 
"of course. But anyway, I'm listening." 


Mac pulled his phone from his pocket and turned it on. "What're
they doin', Socrates, your pals? Checkin' us out? 
" 


Socrates shrugged. 
"C'mon, you won't hurt my feelings. They trying to make sure
we're legit, that we're not gonna jump 'em, embarrass 'em, what?" 


Mac punched in Chang's number. 


"There are no cells out here, sir," Socrates said. "You won't get
through to anyone." 
"Well, I wouldn't if I had bad technology, would I? But what if I


had a phone juiced by the sun and bounced by the satellites? Then 



I wouldn't care whether you've got cells in the woods here, would
I?" 
"But you won't be able to reach the commander unless " 


"This is Chang, Mac. You okay?" 
"I'm fine, Supreme Commander, sir. Just checkin' in to see if my
phone works all the way to New Babylon. " 


"Loud and clear, Mac. Talk to me. What's going on? You in
trouble? What can I do?" 


"Fine, sir. How's the weather there?" 
Chang said, "I've got my screen open to the GPS, and I'm tracking
you and, ah, Jinnah and Irene right to where you ought to be." 


"Hang on, boss. Just a second." 
Mac pretended to tuck the phone to his chest, but he held it
lightly enough so Chang could hear. "What did 


you just say, Socrates? That I couldn't use my phone in the
woods?" 


"Yeah, well, obviously you can, with the satellite and all. But
you couldn't talk to somebody unless they had the same thing is
all I was saying." 


"Who would I want to talk to here with my fancy phone who
wouldn't have one?" 


Socrates paled. "Well, like I don't have one." 


"Who else?" 



"My partners don't either. We have regular." 
"Thought I was gonna call one of your partners, did you?" 
"Tell, no." 
"'Course not. Not unless their boss gave me their number, right?" 
"Right." 
"But even then, I couldn't call them out here, could I?" 
"No. That's all I was saying." 
"You were saying something else, weren't you, Socrates?" 
"No. I was just talking." 
"You thought I was calling Commander Stefanich, didn't you?" 
"No I " 
"Didn't you?" 
"Yes " 


"But you didn't think I could reach him." Socrates noddedmiserably. "But how would you know that?" 

"I was guessing." 


"I can't get through to him in Ptolemais, in the middle of allthe cells? " 

"You probably can." 

"But he's not there, is he?" 

"How would I know?" 

"Because he's here in the woods, isn't he?" Silence. "Isn't he,
Socrates?" 

He shrugged. 

"So, how did he let you and your team know I was coming? Couldn'tcall you, could he?" 

"I am so stupid." 

"I'll grant you that, Socrates. Not livin' up to that nameanyway, wouldn't you say?" Mac turned back to the phone. "Sorryto keep you, Chief." 

"I'm way ahead of you, Mac. I can beam a signal to that phone ofStef anich's that will make the bells and whistles blow, even ifI can't talk to him on it. He'll get a readout that DeputyCommander Konrad, who reports directly to Security andIntelligence Director Akbar, wants to talk with him immediately." 

"Sounds good, Chief. I'll talk to you later. Things are goingfine here." 

"When he calls, I will use the voice modulator that can make mesound like an old German, and I'll tell him that Akbar himself isholding him personally responsible for giving Howie Johnsonaccess to Sebastian." 

"Perfect. " 

"And if he doesn't call, I'll have that on his phone's readout in 


time to help you out. Got you covered, Mac. " 

"Ain't that the truth, Commander!" Mac slapped the phone shut.
"Lemme have that walkie talkie, friend." 

"You're going to get me killed." 

"who, me? Nah. You're a dead man anyway. Said so yourself." 

"Are you going to kill me? Or let her?" 

Mac shook his head. "I'll leave that to your partners. Look onthe bright side. If they're as effective as you are, you'll beeatin' breakfast in the morning as usual." 

Socrates stared at him. 

"You eat breakfast, don't you, Socrates?" 

The man nodded. 

"'Scuse me," Mac said, and pretended to mash the button on thewalkie talkie. "Now hear this, Plato, Aristotle, and Elena. Idon't want to talk to any of you. I want Nelly Stefanich. Now,
Nelly, I know you're close by, and I admire your creativity,
goin' by the book and all. I'm not even insulted that you'recheckin' up on me. I'll make ya a deal. When you get confirmationthat me and mine are all we claim to be, I want you to personallybring Sebastian to me. You know where I am. And bring that teamof philosophers out from under their rock so I can see 'em. Ifyou can get that done, Nelly, I promise not to take your command.
Oh, and Nelson? That's an order, and you've got thirty minutes." 

Mac turned and gave Chloe and Hannah a look. "Now, Socrates,
you're free to go." 

"what are you saying?" 


"You heard me. Go on. Get out of here." Socrates struggled to hisfeet, then bent to pick up his weapon. 

"That stays," Mac said. 
"My radio then?" he said, reaching. 
"Uh uh. I'll keep that too." 
"where will I go?" 
Mac shrugged. "That's up to you." 
Socrates sat on the edge of a flimsy table and rubbed his knee.


"I am a man with nowhere to go." 
"You wanna be here when " 
The man stood quickly, teetering. "No. No. But it is so far to


town. And with no protection or radio . . ." 
"I can't help you, friend. You're part of an operation that


didn't follow orders. You're lucky to be cut loose, considering
the options. If you want to be here when the rest of your team " 
"Ach! " Socrates hobbled to the front door. Mac signaled Chloe


with a nod to watch him. He gingerly stepped through the wood


chips and splinters and made his way out. 
"Follow him," Mac said, "till you're sure he's headed toward
town. Hannah, check the perimeter. I'll clear this place and
we'll meet by the weapons out front." 


Rayford felt a fool, sitting in a cave, high on having personally 



lived through an Old Testament miracle, worrying about Chloe, andentertaining even the possibility that Tsion Ben Judah himselfshould seek his opinion. 

He knew he would be reunited with his daughter 

regardless, but was it wrong to wish her spared from a painful,
violent death? 

`You and Abdullah need to decide what you will do, Rayford,"
Tsion said. "You are welcome to stay, of course, but I do notknow how practical it is to expect you to oversee the TribulationForce from here. Our computer people tell me that David Hassidand Chang Wong have somehow already put in place here the basisfor a mighty technological center, and that the bombs had noeffect on the hardware or the software." 

"Are you serious?" Rayford said. "The electromagnetic pulse fromthe missile alone should have fried everything." 

"Everything is fine. Praise the Lord. So, you could conceivablykeep track of everyone from here, but that is your call." 

"Oh, I will be leaving," Rayford said. "I can't say when yet. Ido worry about your returning to Chicago, Tsion." 

"That is precisely what we have been discussing, Rayford. We donot know if it makes sense for any of us from there to attempt toreturn. Would not you and Abdullah be under as much scrutiny asI? Without another miracle, how could we return to the safe housewithout giving away its location?" 

The thought of finding a new safe house, of moving, weariedRayford. "We'll worry about that, Tsion. What are your plans? Youcould transmit your daily teachings from here." 


Chaim interrupted. "That is my wish and that of the elders here.
And I daresay the rest of the people." 

"I do not know," Tsion said. "I will do as the Lord leads, but Ibelieve Chaim is God's man here." 

"My work is done, Tsion," Chaim said. "God did it in spite of myfeeble efforts, and here we are. I shall hand off the baton toyou, my former student." 

"I remain your student, Doctor," Tsion said. 

"Gentlemen," Rayford said, "the mutual admiration is inspiringbut doesn't get us anywhere. This place needs leadership,
organization, mediation. If you stay, Tsion, you should beprotected from responsibilities that interfere with your teachinghere and to your Internet audience around the world." 

The elders nodded. 

"Perhaps among us," Chaim said, "we can ferret out young peoplewith these gifts. I am willing to administer, coordinate a bit,
but I am not a young man. This is a city, a country unto itself.
We need a government. God provides food and water and clothesthat will not wear out, but I believe he expects us to manageourselves otherwise. We must organize and build admittedly onlyfor the short term, but still . . ." 

"Maybe," Rayford said, "that very work is God's way of occupyingyour time here. Living together, getting along, functioning inharmony will be a full time job. Imagine the boredom of a millionpeople just sitting around waiting for the Glorious Appearing." 

Tsion warmed to this. "Oh, that is why I believe we need tomotivate people to help the rest of the world 


from here. We are not blind to the prophecies, to themachinations of the evil one. Trying to blow us up is only thebeginning. He will think he can starve us out by cutting off oursupply lines. He will not know or will not believe that God feedsus. But we know we are safe. What we must guard against are hisschemes to lure the undecided away from. this place, out to wherethey are vulnerable, not only emotionally and psychologically,
but also physically. I am jealous to keep them here and topersuade them." 

"I don't understand," Rayford said, "how anyone could remainundecided after today." 

"It is beyond human comprehension," Tsion said, "but God foretoldit. Now my dream for the faithful here is that they be useful inthe cause of aiding our brothers and sisters around the world.
Peter warns us to be sober and vigilant because our adversarywalks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour.
`Resist him, steadfast in the faith, knowing that the samesufferings are experienced by your brotherhood in the world.' 

"The evil one will grow angrier, more determined, more vicious,
and many will die at his hand. What better, nobler task could themillion strong here undertake than to aid your daughter'sCommodity Co op and equip the saints to thwart Antichrist? 

"I envision thousands of technological experts creating a networkof resources for believers, informing them of safe havens,
putting them in touch with each other. We know we will lose manybrothers and sisters, and yet we 

should offer what we can to keep the gospel going forth, evennow. " 

Rayford sat back. "Can't argue with that. And it's not a badidea, Tsion, this becoming your new base of operation. We willmiss you, of course, but it makes no sense to risk losing you tothe cause when all you need is right here." 


"I have been thinking," Chaim said, "and, Rayford, feel free tocorrect me, as I am out of my element on this topic. But I wonderif the day of a safe house for the Tribulation Force is past. Weknow New Babylon is sniffing around and that it is only a matterof time before Chicago is exposed. Yes, perhaps we need a centrallocation for the coordinating of the Co op, but if I were you Iwould worry for my little one, being moved hither and yon. Ileave the details to you and your compatriots. But I ask you, isit not true that anyone who is asked to remain at the safe housequickly gets the cottage fever? 

"The young man there, Zeke, who so masterfully equips us toventure out, might find moving around a nuisance. And the matterof record keeping and computers is difficult. But perhaps thesafe house of the future will be in a thousand places, not justone. Perhaps the time has come to make your home in the hidingplaces of the believers around the world." 

Rayford feared Chaim was right, and it must have shown. 

"I am not saying it will be easy," Chaim said, "but I urge you totake the initiative. Make the hard decision. 

Disband the safe house and disperse your people before they arefound out, for then you could lose everyone at once. Surely youall know you have stayed in one place long past a reasonablehour." 

"Oh, I know that, Chaim," Rayford said. "In reality, we have notbeen at the Strong Building very long. Too long, no doubt, butnot even as long as we were at our previous location." 

Tsion stood and stretched. "We need to leave this with you. Godwill lead you. I intended to seek your counsel, and now we havetried to counsel you." 


"I appreciate it." 

"But please, Rayford, counsel me. Let me tell you what I believeGod is impressing upon me, and see if it makes any sense to you.
I know it will jar the sensibilities of many hearers, and yet Idare not casually disregard it. You see, because of what hashappened since the Rapture of the church, I believe there isample evidence of one part of God's nature and character. Clearlythis is a time of judgment, even of wrath. We are in the middleof the last seven of the twenty one judgments of God, and we evenendured one he himself refers to in the Scriptures as the wrathof the Lamb. 

"It would be easy for a preacher to illumine and drive home thetruth of God's impatience, his judgment poured out on hisenemies, his demand for justice for the blood of the prophets.
But I have come to the conclusion that all this goes withoutsaying. Yes, this is the last chance. Yes, everything has beentelescoped into seven last years, and we are already well intothe second 

half of that. God will do what God will do, but I am jealous toprotect his reputation. 

"Oh, I know he does not need nee, does not require my assistance.
I am humbled to the depths of my soul that he has seen fit toallow me any role in ministering to the nations. But a profoundand seemingly contradictory message presses on my heart. Ibelieve it is of God, but it is such a paradox, such a dichotomy,
that I dare not run ahead of him without the counsel of and 
wisdom of my spiritual family." 

Tsion massaged his temples and began to pace. "Gentlemen," hesaid, "walk with me." 


"The crowds will press if you leave here," someone said. 

"They will see we are engaged, I am sure," Tsion said. "Let usnot make a spectacle. Surround me and let us move away from themasses." 

The people still frolicked around the spring while others filledcontainers and gathered manna. Rayford joined the elders andChaim and casually moved into a ravine and down a rocky slope. 

When they were clear of others, Tsion talked as he walked. "I amnot unaware that I have been bestowed a great privilege. I have acongregation here alone of a million souls. I have opportunity toteach the babies in the faith, offering them the milk of theword. I also enjoy breaking the bread and carving the meat of thedeeper things to the more mature. And I am blessed to preach thegospel, evangelizing, for even here, there are the undecided. Wewill not win all of them, a truth that 

astounds me, especially in the glow of an event such as weexperienced just hours ago. But the point is, God daily refreshesme and allows me expects me to exercise all the gifts he hasbestowed on a pastor teacher." 

When Tsion stopped, the rest stopped. He sat on a rock and theygathered around him. "It may sound strange to you all, because Ihave said many, many times that this is the worst seven yearperiod in the history of mankind, but in many ways I count it analmost limitless benefit to be alive right now. Technology hasallowed me a congregation, if the figures can be believed, ofmore than a billion via the Internet. Someday in heaven I willask God to let me get my finite brain around that figure. For nowit is too much to take in. I cannot picture it, cannot tell youhow many one hundred thousand seat stadiums it would take tohouse them all. Well, of course I know that ten thousand suchstadiums would equal a billion people, but does that help youpicture it in your mind? Me neither. 


"Now, let me tell you what weighs on me when I think of theresponsibilities I have to such a congregation. I believe thetime has come to stop talking about the judgment of God. There isno denying it. There is no pretending that his wrath is not beingpoured out. But I have come to the conclusion that the wholemessage of God throughout the ages is an anthem to his mercy. 

"Most of you know that this comes from a man who saw his belovedwife and children murdered. Am I saying that the holiness of Godis less important than the love of 

God? How could I when the Scriptures say that he is love, butthat he is holy, holy, holy? 

"I am merely saying that I will let God's justice and judgmentand wrath speak for themselves, and I will spend the rest of mytime here championing his mercy." 

It seemed to Rayford that Tsion took the time to look into theeyes of everyone who had heard him. He could have gone on,
defended himself and his novel opinion. But he simply finished bysaying, "You have until noon tomorrow to correct me if youbelieve I am a wayward brother. Otherwise, my teaching begins,
and you know my theme." 

Buck was sympathetic to Alble. The diminutive Middle Easternerwas wound tight, unable to sit still. "I can't live like this,
Cameron," he said. "I'm going to spend this evening with Zeke andlook through his files. Have you seen his inventory?" 

"Of course." 

"There has to be an identity in there for me. The GC thingprobably won't work for me again, but I'll do anything. Anythingbut sit around here. 'you think he could make me tall and blond?" 

Buck had to smile. One of two wasn't bad. "I might join you," hesaid. "Zeke's a master, and this sitting around is gonna killme." 


"But you write. You get to download all that stuff from Chang andget it out on the Net. I love your son, 

Cameron, but trading off baby sitting, reading, looking out thewindow, and waiting for everybody to check in is going to driveme crazy." 

"I know." 
"Have you spent much time with Mac?" Albie said. 
"Sure." 
"Great man. Good mind. But we don't think the same. I can imagine


all kinds of things he's doing in Greece right now that could get


oh, I'm sorry. I keep forgetting Chloe is right there with him." 
"What? You think Mac won't look out for Chloe? She's probably
looking out for him." 


"I ought to be there is what I'm saying." 
"Deputy Commander Konrad?" 
"That is correct," Chang said, his voice electronically


modulated, "and this had better be Nelson Stef anich. " 
"It is, sir, and l' 
"Commander, I want to know what in the world is going on over


there." 
"Yes, sir, we " 
"I sent my senior commander all the way from New Babylon to talk


directly with your prisoner." 



"And that will happen, sir. I " 


"I don't appreciate him getting jerked around when you had fair
warning and plenty of time to make arrangements. " 
" I know. We " 


THE REMNANT 


"I'll expect a full report transmitted to my office by noon
tomorrow." 
"I'll definitely do that, sir, because it is explainable." 
"Is Johnson meeting with Sebastian now?" 
"Not quite yet " 
"Even as we speak? Because if not, I want to know why not." 
"There was some mix up with our local team, sir. They thought


they heard " 


"I'll look for those details tomorrow, Commander, but meanwhile
I'm going to assume you're effecting this meeting. " 
"Yes, sir." 
"And not making Johnson come to you." 
"Sir? " 
"He's gone as far as I expect him to have to go. Anywhere he is, 



is a secure environment, so you have your people get the prisonerto him." 

"Yes, sir. Deputy Commander, could I inform you of some goodnews?" 

"There is no good news until I know Johnson has access toSebastian." 

"I just wanted you to know that we have located the centralunderground headquarters in Ptolemals and plan to raid it atmidnight." 

CHLOE WATCHED Socrates froth inside the shack until 
he disappeared, limping down toward the road. Then 
she tiptoed out, went ninety degrees into the trees, huried past

the Fifty and the DEW, which her quarry had 
issed some forty feet to his left. She found it no chore to 
keep up with the lame Socrates. 
Chloe held tight to the grip on the Uzi, pulling the

 ap taut to keep it away from her body and from 

icking into the Luger. She turned sideways and mince-stepped thedecline, carefully crossing the gravel road. 
Stopping on the other side, she heard movement in the 
underbrush, someone heading left, east, hurrying and 
it worrying about snapping twigs and thrashing through

 the thick stuff. Chloe squatted and regulated her breathing, 


gauging direction and distance to keep from following too closeand giving herself away. 

There was no need for her to step into the overgrowth. 

CHAPTER SEVEN 

CHLOE WATCHED Socrates from inside the shack until he 
disappeared, limping down toward the road. Then she tiptoed out,
went ninety degrees into the trees, hurried past the Fifty andthe DEW, which her quarry had passed some forty feet to his left.
She found it no chore to keep up with the lame Socrates. 

Chloe held tight to the grip on the Uzi, pulling the strap tautto keep it away from her body and from clacking into the Luger.
She turned sideways and mincestepped the decline, carefullycrossing the gravel road. Stopping on the other side, she heardmovement in the underbrush, someone heading left, east, hurryingand not worrying about snapping twigs and thrashing through thethick stuff. Chloe squatted and regulated her breathing, gaugingdirection and distance to keep from following too close andgiving herself away. 

There was no need for her to step into the overgrowth. 

She could easily keep pace staying at the side of the road in thesoft, silent dirt. The only danger was overtaking her prey andbeing seen. It had to be Socrates. When he came even with theshack again, though he was below the line of sight from the frontdoor, he stopped, apparently to listen. Hearing nothing must haveencouraged him, because now out he came, maybe fifty feet aheadof Chloe and also choosing to stay on the quieter surface next tothe road. 


Chloe stood stock still in case he decided to turn around. She 
couldn't imagine being seen in the darkness, but who knew whatkind of vision the limping, unarmed man might have? Some peoplecould see or sense shapes in the darkness. Mac had proved that.
And maybe this character knew the area, would notice a silhouettebetween trees that should have provided a clear shot to thestars. 

Chloe waited until he went around a bend, then hurried to whereshe could again hear the labored footsteps. She peeled her eyesand save or at least imagined that he was testing the knee,
trying to walk more upright, more normal, and not succeeding.
Occasionally she heard a grunt or a moan. He was in pain, and hecertainly was taking the long way to town. 

No, Socrates was going to lead her to George Sebastian. Chloejust knew it. Should she attempt a quiet transmission, let Macknow Hopalong was headed the wrong way? How much of a lead couldhe get if that took thirty seconds? Mac and Hannah could catch upwith her quickly, and they could overtake him in no time. 

But Mac was double checking the shack, and Hannah 

was outside alone, making sure no ambush was afoot. Chloe wouldnever forgive herself if a needless transmission gave someone anaudible target. If Socrates led her right to this lean to orwhatever it was, unless she was seen, she couldn't be in anydanger. If the other three were there even if Stefanich was thereshe'd still have plenty of time to call for the others. 

Mac knelt in the cool dampness of the cramped cellar. The singlebare bulb hanging from the ceiling revealed irregular shapes onthe earthen floor. With his flashlight he tried to determinewhether George had been mistreated. It was impossible to tell if 


those were flecks of blood among the footprints andindecipherable shapes. It's where I would terrorize a hostage,
Mac decided. 

He shined his light in every corner, flipped off the cellarswitch, and was headed upstairs when his phone chirped. Eager toget outside to the rendezvous but hesitant to be on the phone inthe open air, he paused on the stairs and flipped it open. Was ithis imagination or had he heard a voice from out back? He assumedHannah would have done her perimeter scan and would be waitingwith Chloe by the tree in front. 

Mac didn't dare say anything, so he just listened to the phone. 

"Mac 

It was Chang, but Mac didn't want to acknowledge. He pressed abutton on the keypad. 

"Mac? That you?" 

He pressed the button longer. 

"Okay, you can't talk, but neither can I until I can confirm it'syou. One beep if the following is true; two if it's false: Afterthe first book in the New Testament, the next four have exactlythe same number of letters in their titles." 

Now Mac for sure heard a voice from the back. Male. Chang'sstatement was true, but was it one for true and two for false orthe other way around? He hesitated, listening while creeping tothe top of the stairs. 

"Mac would know this," Chang said. "One if true, two if " 

Mac pressed one quickly. 

"Could have been a lucky guess," Chang said, and Mac closed his 


eyes. Come on! 

"You have a contact in a very strategic location. Give me a beepfor the number of letters in his sister's maiden name" 

What? Chang would be so clever at a party. Okay, Chang's thecontact. His sister is Ming Toy. Three. Wait! Maiden name. Sameas Chang's. Wong. Four. Mac punched them quickly, now peeking outof the darkened shack toward the back. He could see nothing. 

"Okay, Mac, right. Now listen. Talked to Stefanich as Konrad.
He's going to make his guys bring Sebastian to you, so stay putbut don't waste time. He claims they've found the undergroundheadquarters and will raid it at midnight. I don't have anynumbers on the Co op people there. Do you? One if yes, two ifno." 

Mac pressed twice. "I don't even know that they have phones. Canyou send somebody to help? One if " Mac beeped once. "Are you inimmediate danger?" Mac beeped twice. "Okay, so you're somewherewhere you can't talk. GPS shows you still where I talked to youlast. Someone there with you?" Twice. "Outside?" Once. "See them? 

" 

Twice. 

"Okay, you hear them. Have you got personnel outside?" 

Onc e. 

"Both? " 

Onc e. 

"I'll let you go. You want me to stay on?" 


Twi ce. 

"Check in when you're clear. I want to know we're doing somethingfor the Co op there." 

Mac put his phone away and crept outside. Half a dozen armedPeacekeepers milled about by the car. 

"I say we take it. We've hiked for hours." 

"No keys." 

"So hot wire it." 

"Come on! Supposed to be only five hundred more meters." 

The Peacekeepers headed east. Mac circled around to the front. SoSte fanich sent backup. Wonder if that's all of 'em? 

Neither Hannah nor Chloe was by the tree. Mac made a noisethrough his teeth, in case they were close by. Nothing. He kneltin the darkness. The Fifty was in place. The DEW was gone. 

It felt to George as if Aristotle had turned left onto the roadand driven east for about twenty minutes before pulling off tothe side and waiting. He had once been able to keep track of thepassage of time, but now he had to fight sleep. If he had toguess, George would have said they sat, not moving, for more thanan hour. But neither would it have surprised him if it wereactually twice that long. 

Finally Aristotle said, "What do you think?" 


"We could have gone long ago," Elena said. "The place clears outearly, and there aren't that many people there anymore anyway." 

"Plato? " 

"Yes, go! We've got to get back up here before long." 

It seemed to George that they eventually made their way out ofthe woods and off the gravel road to a main road and were headingsouth. Then they went east, and he had the sense, from ambianceand sound, that they were in a populated area, maybe town. 

"Get him out of sight," Aristotle said a few minutes later. 

Plato reached and grabbed George by the right shoulder and pulledhim over to where his head now lay in the big man's lap.
Aristotle soon slowed and seemed to be parking. "No, no!" Platosaid. "Around back." Once they finally stopped and parked, Elenasaid, "I'll see if we're clear." George felt a cramp in his lowerback but could do nothing about it. She returned and got back inthe Jeep, shutting the door. "About twenty minutes," she said.
"You got it?" Aristotle said. "Let me see it." "And it goeswhere? " "About a foot below the top of the right door." "I nevernoticed before." "Can I sit him up?" Plato said. "Better wait." 

Chloe stopped fifty feet in back of Socrates and guessed theywere close to five hundred meters from the shack. He was bent 
over, hands on his thighs, breathing heavily. His pace had slowedthe last hundred meters or so, and maybe he was trying to come upwith an approach to his comrades that would gain him sympathyrather than hostility. She was watching him carefully when shefroze at the sound of footsteps on the gravel. Several. Nothurrying. Not sneaking. Just coning. She backed into theunderbrush about ten feet off the road and knelt, the 


knees of her camouflage pants immediately soaked through andcold. She fought the temptation to hold her breath, fearing shewould exhale right when whoever was behind her came by. Chloeknew it couldn't be Mac and Hannah. There were too many. 

She was out of sight of Socrates now and hated not knowingwhether he was off again. If he was, he would find his teamwithout her knowing where. And here came half a dozenPeacekeepers, weapons in hand. They were in no hurry, chatting, acouple smoking. Chloe tried to sake it make sense. They seemed tohave an idea where they were going. Same spot? She could followthem, and maybe more easily because of the noise they made. 

They were ten feet past her, and she would wait another thirtyseconds before venturing out. Her walkie talkie gave two quick,
staticky squawks, startling her. The Peacekeepers kept walkingand talking, but she panicked. Though they hadn't heard thesounds, if someone started talking to her, they'd hear that. 

She reached in her pocket to turn off the radio, but in feelingfor the right knob turned it up. Frantic to shut it off, shelurched, lost her balance, and flopped onto her seat. "Johnson orIrene, come in, please." 

Too loud! 

Chloe leaped to her feet, yanked out the radio, squeezed thetransmit button twice, shut it off, and set herself, readying theUzi. The Peacekeepers had stopped and now crept her way. 

Mac pulled out his radio and whispered, "Johnson here, Jinnah.
What's your ten twenty?" 

"One hundred yards northeast of rendezvous point." 


"You okay?" 
"Ten four. GC troops in the woods, sir." 
"Irene with you?" 
"Negative. " 
"The DEW?" 
"Affirmative. " 
"On my way. How many?" 
"Guessing two dozen, sir." 
"Come back?" 
"Minimum twenty four." 
"Roger. Be sure you're clear, cease radio transmission, and


return to rendezvous ASAP." 
"Roger. " 
So much for bluffing Ste fdnich. Either he wasn't buying or he's


royally stupid. 


"Johnson to Irene . . . Johnson to Irene . . . Johnson to Irene. 
Do you read?" 
Mac looked at his watch, kicked the ground, pressed his lips


together, and waited for Hannah. 


Chloe stood in the bramble, finger on the trigger, feet spread in


the mushy ground. The Peacekeepers stopped on the road, facing


her position, close enough that she could hear their breathing.


All six set their weapons at 


the same time. She could barely see them and assumed they could
not see her. She held her breath and did not move. 


"GC!" one called out. "Who goes there?" 
Chloe entertained the hope that they would all six decide they
hadn't really heard anything. 


"Show yourself or we spray the area!" 


"Friend!" she called out. "GC here too. Sister on assignment.
Cool your jets." 
"Armed? " 
"Holding it over my head, Peacekeeper. Ten to one I outrank you,


so don't do anything rash." 
A big flashlight made her squint. Holding the Uzi over her head,


she said, "Turn that thing off! We're all here on the same
assignment." 
The light went off. "Hand over the weapon, ma'am, and we'll sort


this out." 
"No, we'll sort it out first. Now I'm tucking it under my arm to


show my papers. Stand down now. So far you've been by the book
and I can't fault you." 
"Thank you. I'm going to need to turn the light onto your docs,


ma'am." 
"Hold on, I got a smaller beam. Going into the pocket." 
With the weapon tucked and pointing her small flashlight at her


papers, Chloe's heart drumrolled against her chest. 
"Superior officer, guys," the leader said. "Salute." 



"No need," Chloe said. "Good job. A little sloppy on the march,
but at least you're on time." 

"What were you doing in the bushes, ma'am?" "Following orders.
Now wait here for my CO and another officer, and we'll gotogether." "That Uzi's not official issue, is it?" "Something tolook forward to." "Really?" "At my level it is." "Wow. 

" 
"We still reasonably on schedule?" she said. 
"About twenty minutes early, ma'am." 
"Stand by, gentlemen." Chloe pulled out her radio and turned it


on. "Officer Irene to Senior Commander Johnson." 
"Johnson! Oh, man! " 
"Senior Commander!" 
Chloe turned to the Peacekeepers. "A little decorum, please." 
"Johnson, go ahead." 
"Sir, I've met up with six Peacekeepers who will join us on the


assignment. Standing by for you approximately meters east of 
your position." 
"Six? " 
"Ten four." 
"Everything copacetic, Irene? " 



"Ten four." 

"For all I know, we could be surrounded," Mac told Hannah. "Yousure you weren't seen ? " 

"Positive." 

"what is going on?" He called Chang and filled him in. "What doyou think Stefanich is up to?" 

"I'm in his mainframe, Mac, and there's nothing there. Could beas bad as they're onto you, or he's still trying to cover. " 

"But what's he need all these people in the woods for? Theymustering here for the midnight raid?" 

"Seems out of the way." 

"Sure does. Unless they're wrong about the location of theunderground headquarters. We're not far from where the pastor hidout Rayford. You think they've finally discovered that?" 

"You're a good thirty miles from there, Mac. I'll stay on it, butI don't know what to tell you." 

Aristotle said, "All right, let's go." 

Plato shoved George up. Someone opened his door, and it seemedPlato and Aristotle each took an arm and guided him, while Elenaopened doors. They led him about fifteen feet, up three concretesteps, and inside. Then about twenty steps down a corridor that 


from the echoes seemed narrow. Finally into a larger room. 


Aristotle let go of George and walked a few steps away. "Ach! I
can't reach it. Plato?" 
"Give me that." 
George heard what sounded like metal being slotted 


into metal, then a couple of loud clicks. Plato grunted. "What's
the secret here?" he said. 
"Let me get the other side," Aristotle said, and he was 
replaced at George's side by Elena. I f only I weren't 
cuffed, George thought. That was when he would have 
taken his chances. Coldcock the girl, whip off the blind 
fold, race back down that corridor and outside, and 
hope for the best. But not with his hands behind his 
back. Any hesitation and she would shoot him, he was 


sure. 
Plato and Aristotle grunted and Aristotle said, "Push him in,
Elena. Come on, Plato and I have to get back." 


Elena guided George forward, turned him sideways, and tried toforce him through an opening apparently being held on each sideby the men. He didn't fit. "Give me another couple of inches,"
she said, and they grunted louder. She pushed George through. 


"Hold on now," Aristotle said. "I don't want him found cuffed andblindfolded." 

Hands reached in and unlocked the cuffs. "Toss me the blindfold,"
Elena said. 

George slipped it off and saw he was inside a dark elevator.
Elena had a weapon pointed at him. Good thing for them, Georgethought, because Plato and Aristotle were totally occupiedholding the doors open. Elena took the blindfold, shoved it in apocket, and pulled a bottle of water from another. She tossed itin and said, "Cheers," as the doors slammed shut. 

George let the bottle bounce on the floor and tried to get hisfingers between the doors. Just when he had 

found purchase he heard the key slide into its hole again and thethrowing of the lock. He heard water sloshing and felt around inthe dark for the bottle. He uprighted it and decided to save whatwas left for as long as he could 

With his arms spread, George could touch the walls on each side,
and as he made a quarter turn, he realized the enclosure wassquare. It didn't surprise him that the buttons on a panel werenot working, but he could tell from the pattern that he was in afour story building. The ceiling was less than a foot above hishead. 

George felt for loose panels, missing screws, anything.
Everything felt secure. A thin, plastic panel had to be the coverfor the light. He removed that and felt a small, circular doublefluorescent tube. Next to that was a mesh panel. He pushed uphard on the side until it gave way, then ripped it down. Now hecould feel the fan blades, dusty, oily. 

His body was already heating, and his breath was short. Were 


these people crazy? A malfunctioning elevator might make aperfect prison cell, but did they want him to suffocate? Georgeshed his sweater and boots and socks and sat down, his backagainst the door. He found a boot and began swinging it backwardover his shoulder against the door. 

"Knock it off or I'll put you out of your misery," Elena calledout. o they had left her alone to guard him. He wanted to tellher that if they didn't want a dead hostage to show to the brass,
they'd better at least get the fan running. But he was committednot to speak. Not a word. And so he kept banging. 

Chang had a bad feeling. Since the day he had been left as theonly mole at the GC Palace, he had never felt so helpless. Was itpossible Stefanich was playacting? They seemed to have himintimidated, eager to please. Even if he had checked on Mac,
Chang had everything in place to make Howie Johnson look legit.
He was certain Stefanich was embarrassed to find he had doubted 
this high level Johnson character and should now be trying tocover that he had ever doubted him. 

Chang was desperate to find out hove vulnerable Mac and Chloe andHannah were. Could they be walking into an ambush? Time wasagainst him, but it might be wrong to just tell Mac to abort.
Maybe they could hotwire the car at the shack and get back to theairport, but Chang knew Mac wouldn't abandon Sebastian. What ifhe was already dead? If Mac had been exposed, there was no reasonfor the GC to keep him alive. 

Chang slapped his forehead with both palms. 

Think! I f they're onto Mac, why are they? I f you can find theconnection, maybe you can figure out what they might do. 

Chang started a global search, asking David Hassid's superpoweredengine to match anyone at high levels in the palace with the GC 


at Ptolemais. He even keyed in code breakers, in case the contactperson feared someone within the palace was monitoring them. Withthe computer whirring away, darting through thousands of files inhundreds of locations, Chang fell to his knees. 

"God, I have never asked you to override a piece of 

equipment. But you know a servant of yours designed this, and Iwant to serve you too. Help me think. Speed the process. Pleaselet me protect these brothers and sisters. I know from whathappened at Petra today that nothing is beyond you. We have lostso much to the enemy, and I know we will lose more before yourultimate victory. But don't let the Greek believers suffer more.
Not tonight. Protect the Co op. And help me get Mac and Chloe andHannah and George out of there." 

Mac liked a clear mission, a black and white assignment. This onewas infiltrate, then storm the gates, free your man, and hit theroad. Now there was the underground complication. He wouldn'tleave Greece without his man, and now he couldn't leave withoutdefending the believers. 

The original plan didn't figure he and his people would beoutnumbered. There were four hostage takers. Mac, his two teammembers, and George made four good guys. Those odds he could livewith. But to walk Hannah down the road to Chloe and six GC,
knowing there were at least two dozen more in the area, well,
that didn't make sense. 

"Hold up," he told Hannah. "You know how to hotwire a car?" 

"Do I admit it or not?" 

"Just say so. Time is not on our side." 


"Yes " 
"Do it." 
While she trotted to Sebastian's car, Mac radioed Chloe. "Johnson


to Irene." 
"Irene, go." 
"Unforeseen delay here. Need your assistance." 
"Ten four. Should I bring help?" 
"Negative. Let them go on. We'll catch up." 
"You heard the boss, gentlemen," Chloe said. "We'll see you at


the destination." 
"We'd love to help the senior commander, ma'am." 
"Thank you, no." 
"Can we meet him later?" 
"I'll see to it." And as she said it, Chloe was overwhelmed with


a deep impression, and she had to express herself. "If you do me


a favor." 


"Anything, ma'am." 
"Senior Commander Johnson's presence tonight is a surprise for
Commander Stefanich. He's going to be compensated for some of his
recent actions. So . . ." 


"Don't let on he's coming?" 


"Exactly. " 


"You got it, ma'am. And you know what? We didn't know CommanderStefanich was going to be here. Fact is, we don't know what we'redoing here." 

Chloe blanched. What if Stefanich wasn't there? "It's all part ofthe surprise, boys." 

Chang knew God had protected him, probably more j 

than he realized. But he had no reason to think God 

owed him anything or was obligated to act in this 

instance, just because Chang had asked. With zero con 

fidence that his pleas had done any good, Chang wearily 

returned to his chair before the computer. 

The screen was alive with red flashes. The search engine hadreached secure files at the highest levels and was matching,
comparing, translating languages, turning spoken word intowritten. A small box in the upper right hand corner showed sixmatches already between some element of the GC operation inPtolemais with top brass at the palace. Top. 

Chang feared multitasking would slow the search, but he had totake the chance. Mac and the two women were in danger,
outnumbered, without any idea what they faced. 

He checked the first three matches and found they were routineinteractions of Ptolemais administration reporting statistics toGC command. But the fourth was different. It was highest securityinteraction, a series of e mails between TB and CST, plus marethan one phone call, also between the same two, being reduced totyped transcription. 


Chang keyed in, "Match logic?" 

The response was immediate. "Meets broad, simple criteria:
initials one letter removed from key personnel in GC Greece andGC Palace." 

Chang squinted. That's what he had asked for: any con 

nection based on standard search sequences and codes. TB was oneletter away from SA. OT was one letter away from NS. Chang shotfrom his chair and stood hunched over the keyboard. He typed in,
"Show interaction," and as the files cascaded onto the screen, hecalled Mac. 

Mac heard the car running and footsteps jogging toward him fromthe north and the east. "Ladies?" he said. 

"Yes " 

" yep " 

His phone buzzed. "Stand by. Hey, Chang." 

"Mac! I'll say this once and get back to you as fast as possiblewith details. Ready?" 

"Go " 

"Akbar and Stefanich have communicated personally several timestoday." Click. 

"Busted," Mac said. "Listen up. No time for questions. Hannah,
you're driving. Chloe, you're riding. Take the DEW, Uzi, and aside arm each, phones on, radios on. Get to the Co op now. Clear 


'em out, including anything they don't want found in a midnightraid. Then straight to the airport and wait out of sight forSebastian and me, ready to hightail it to his plane. If we don'tshow, that means we're dead and you're on your own." 

Mac bent and heaved the Fifty up against his chest. "Time to goto work, big boy," he said. 

Hannah and Chloe ran around the shack to the idling car.

 blank 

Chapter 

"THANK YOU, Lord," Chang said, still standing as his fingersdanced on the keyboard. In seconds he had opened the transcriptsof four phone conversations on a line so secure that Carpathiahimself had once said even he didn't have access to it. 

But David Hassid cracked it, Nichy. Access that. 

Chang also had copies of e-mails that showed up on neither thepalace nor the Ptolemais mainframe and were supposedly guaranteedto disappear from every record after they had been read. Hassid'smaster disk probably had the only copies in existence, includingthe correspondents'. 

Though he was curious, Chang knew it was irrelevant how someoneat Stefanich's level had personal access to the director ofSecurity and Intelligence. The way they interacted evidenced somehistory, but if the box in the 

corner had not begun flashing again, Chang would not have wastedthe time tracking it down until the crisis was over. He quicklyclicked on the box to find " percent primary match, no decodenecessary." 


He opened the manifest and sped read: "Straight correlation fromList A to List B: Suhail Akbar and Nelson Stefanich registered atMadrid Military School, overlapping tenures." 

From the years listed, Chang calculated they had been theretogether as teenagers, more than twenty five years before. Thatwould get a phone call returned. 

Chang was flying now, his eyes darting over the copy, looking for
how the ruse fell apart. 
Stefanich had asked whether Howie Johnson was "a fair man." 
Akbar responded that the name didn't ring a bell. 
Stefanich told him, "Senior Commander under Konrad." 


"I'll look him up." 
Akbar found him and reported, "Stellar record, but our paths have
not crossed. Unusual for someone at that level, but it happens."


 DOn~t vv amt to be a best," Stefanich tiad f ollowed, "but does
Konrad vouch for him? Want to be sure before exposing him to
prisoner." 
"what prisoner? And who's Konrad?" 
"The Judah ite, George Sebastian." 
"Still nothing out of him?" 
"We'll break him or kill him." 
"Break him. I know you can." 



"You're not Konrad's immediate superior ? " 
"No. Do I need to look him up too? " 
"You'd better. He's supposed to be your top guy, deputy


commander, office on your floor." 
"Send documentation." 
Later, Akbar told Stefanich, "You're being duped. Johnson and


Konrad are in the system, everything adds up, except they don't
exist." 


"Permission to reverse sting them?" 
"With my best wishes. Bring them in, dead or alive, and I'll move
you to the palace." 


As the phone calls and e mails progressed, the women's identities


proved phony too. "The one from Montreal was in my office." 
By early afternoon, Akbar had decided, "If Sebastian is worth all
this, they're tied in tight with the underground. Announce a raid
and see if they reveal location." 


Chang called Mac. "The raid's phony. If you warn the believers,
you could give them away." 
"Call Chloe or Hannah. I'm occupied." 


"Your location is a trap too, Mac." 
"All right, listen, Chang. You saved our lives. But whatever you
do, find Sebastian. I'll get him out or die tryin'." 


Chloe answered her phone. 
It was Chang. "Raid was a setup so you'd lead the GC to the
underground. Abort." 



"Hannah, you were right" 

"What? " 

"Hannah was right, Chang. She suspected we were being followed. I
didn't notice a thing and thought she was paranoid." 
"I told you!" 
"Ditch them or lead them nowhere," Chang said. "From what I can


tell, the GC has no clue where the Co op is or that it's the
meeting place. I gotta go. Mac is calling." 


"Go, Mac." 
"Question. If this is a trap, why wouldn't Peacekeepers have come
back with Chloe and taken me then?" 


"I don't follow." 
Mac told him of her encounter with the half doyen. 
"You got me. I'm still reading the back and forth between Akbar


and Stefanich. Possible not everybody knows. " 
"That could be." 
"It's to your advantage." 
"Confirm if you can." 
"Will do." 
Mac had moved east far enough to see the lean to, if there was


one. He saw nothing. Not even the GC Hannah or Chloe had seen.
That meant the meeting 



place for the ground troops was at least a little farther on. IfChang was right, Sebastian wouldn't be within miles of there. 

Brilliant military mind, Mac. Left yourself alone in thewilderness, way outnumbered. 

Mac considered his options and few advantages. He was hard tosee. He knew enough not to be lured to where Sebastian waspurported to be. He had the Fifty. He was a long walk or a mediumjog to the car, but the car had to already be under surveillance.
It would be surrounded, so if he were stupid enough to try to getto it, he would be easily apprehended. "Lord," he said quietly,
"I'm gonna thank you for keepin' me motivated to stay in shape,
and I'm gonna ask you for more stamina than I've got. All I'mtryin' to do is get your man and my two partners out of herealive. Now I'm thankin' you as if you've already done it, 'causeI'm going to be busy here awhile. And if you've chosen not to, Ifigure you know best and I'll be seein' you real soon." 

Mac made his way back toward the shack and stopped about ahundred yards above it. He removed his big, outer jacket, keptonly three fifty caliber shells and two clips for the Uzi, thenwound the Uzi strap twice so the weapon was snug to his body. 

He couldn't actually run carrying the Fifty, but he loped thebest he could, staying high on the ridge and following theterrain, often as far as two hundred yards above the road. Theair was cool on his arms and neck and face at first, but soon hisbody heat made him sweat. This, he knew, was only the beginning. 

Mac's muscles ached and knotted and all but cried out, but hewould not stop. He didn't even slow. He just kept moving, fartherand farther west, trying to gauge the distance to where he hadleft the car. After traversing a rugged stretch with loose rocksthat nearly made him fall several times, he finally decided tolook for the vehicle. 


Mac stretched out on the steep slant, facing down toward theroad. He set the bipod, his arms shaking from effort and fatigue,
popped open the telescopic sight, loosened the connection so hecould scan with it rather than trying to move the heavy gun, andsearched the road. 

It seemed to take forever for his eye to adjust in the darkness.
The gravel road was a ribbon of only slightly lighter grayagainst the blackness of the woods, but he knew what he waslooking at. At the far right of his field of vision far enoughthat he knew he would have to move the weapon nearly a hundredfeet he spotted something that picked up a hint of starlight.
Only the white car would do that. 

Mac gulped another minute's worth of the cool air, then forcedhimself up and over to where he could line the Fifty up with thecar. He was nothing if not patient. While he tightened the sightand made several seat of thepants calculations, he swore he sawmovement on the north side of the road. If he was right, GCwaited for him down there and almost certainly on the other sideof the road too. 

He remembered from experience to tear cloth from his undershirtand stuff both ear canals. He set an extra round of ammunition 
next to the weapon, then dug him 

self footholds. It was a huge benefit to be pointing downhill,
because the recoil could shove him up and back only so far. Hehad to remember to keep his knees bent. 

Mac's plan was to fire two rounds into the car in as rapid asuccession as possible, knowing that he would have to forcehimself to follow through, because no one who had shot thisrascal once and that included him ever wanted to shoot it again,
let alone right away. 

He stretched out and settled in, leaving his finger off the 


trigger until he had drawn the butt of the rifle to his shoulder.
He maneuvered it until it lay in a soft spot and not on bone,
aware that the thing would still wreak havoc with his whole body. 

Mac ran through the checklist. Steady. Relaxed. Pull firm to theshoulder. Trigger finger relaxed. Ears protected. Feet in holds.
Elbows slightly bent. Knees flexed and ready to give. Barelyvisible crosshairs dead on the roof of the car, a tick left,
allowing for wind. Distance just under two hundred yards. Nomatter what the thing does to me, reload and fire again, notworrying about accuracy the second time. 

It warmed Mac as he silently counted himself down from three thathe definitely saw movement through the lens. Unless someone wasso spectacularly unfortunate as to step into his line of fire, noone would be hit, certainly not by the first round. By thesecond, even if he got it off inside a few beats, he expected theGC to be halfway back to the shack already. 

When he got to one, Mac aborted. Better idea. Go for broke. Aim alittle left, hope to hit the gas tank. Even if 

he missed, these guys had to think they were facing a tank or atleast a bazooka. But if he got lucky, they'd think they werefacing eternity. 

He reset, just a smidge. Checklist. Three, two, one, zero, oh,
Mama! 

Mac thought he had been prepared. It was as if he had nothing inhis ears. The sound was so massive it seemed to weigh on him. Thewoods had exploded, and yes, the erupting of that gas tank andthe rebounding of that car on the gravel would have made a soundwhether or not people had been there to hear it. The perversenightmare of the sheer volume of it lay atop him longer than the 

orange ball rode his eyeballs. 

The violence drove him back and onto his left side. As Mac 
struggled to gather his senses, he rolled back to his belly and 


slid back down into the same position. Fingers fluttering, hewrestled the extra round into the chamber, made sure the thingwas generally facing away from him again, and forced himselfagainst every instinct to pull 

the trigger again. 

He should have run through the checklist again. One foot had notbeen secure. He was neither tight nor firm. The butt had been atleast a half inch from his shoulder. The recoil sent it back 
seemingly at the speed of light and drove a ridge into the top ofhis shoulder he was sure 

would be there for weeks. 

The sound was lessened only by the damage the first shot had doneto his eardrums. His ears buzzed and rang, and he dumbly liftedhis head to see trees falling, two on this side of the road, oneon the other. His aim 

had been ten feet to the left of the now flattened and burningcar, which prettily illuminated the carnage of machine and faunaall wrought by two fairly simple pulls on a metal lever. 

Mac wished only that he could have heard what had to be thefrightened cries of the young Peacekeepers on the dead run. Heawkwardly forced himself up on all fours like a spindly newborncolt and fought to keep from pitching down the hill. 

When he was finally standing, arms outstretched for balance andto stop the woods from spinning, he waited. And waited. When hisbalance mechanism finally made the necessary adjustments, Maccaught his breath, shook his head, stretched each limb even theone with the violated shoulder and began to jog. 

His intention was to jog what had taken him more than a half hour 


to drive. He would find his way back to where he and Chloe andHannah had engaged in their sortie soiree that late afternoonthat now seemed so long ago. There Mac would find the hiddenJeep, hot wire it, and set off on what he truly hoped was hislast caper of the day. Surely by the time he got there, he wouldhave heard from. Chang where he might find George Sebastian. 

And after all this, may God have mercy or not on anyone who daredstand between them and freedom.

 blank 

Chapter 

CHLOE DIDN'T know the specifics of the directed energy weaponlying across the backseat, but she'd heard the effect it had on atarget. And she was curious. She carefully lifted it into herlap, making Hannah alternate from watching the road to watchingthe DEW. 

"Don't point that thing at me, Chloe." 

"It's not even on! " 

"That's like saying a gun isn't loaded. People get killed all thetime with guns they swear aren't loaded." 

"Looks pretty simple. You know the deal with these, right?" 

"Yes," Hannah said. "Now, Chloe, please." 

"Looks like you just turn it on, let it heat up or whatever itdoes, and fire away. It's nonlethal." 


"Yeah, I know. But degrees on soft tissue's going to make youwish you were dead." 

"Bet I can get those guys to quit following us." 

"Don't even think about it. You miss, they start shooting, andwe're not going to help anybody." 

"we're not helping anybody anyway," Chloe said. "We're sittinghere with Uzis, side arms, a shotgun, and a DEW, and we've leftMac up there by himself with all those GC." 

"And how long are these guys going to let us lead them all overtown before they realize we're playing them?" 

"We've got to shake 'em before we head for the airport, Hannah.
They'll never let us in there." 

"Shake them? Chloe, their ranks may be decimated, but they've gotother personnel, more cars, radios. We're not going to shakethem." 

"I'm calling Chang." 

"what for?" 

"I want to know how many people know where we are." 

"Whys " 

"Hang on." 

Running was much easier without the cumbersome Fifty, but Mac hadnot run this far since . . . since when? Since never. No highschool cross country race was this far. This was longer than amarathon. With the slow but sure staccato of his steps, herepeated in his mind, "God, I'm yours. God, I'm yours. God, I'myours." 


If he was going to reach the jeep, it would be only 

because God wanted him to. This was way past Mac's humancapabilities. 

Chang frantically read every tidbit of the communication betweenAkbar and Stefanich, hoping for something, anything, to help Mac.
His secure phone chirped, and the readout told him who it was. 

"You okay, Chloe?" he said. 

"For now," she said. "Is there a way to know haw many people are(allowing us?" 

"I can try to find out. What's your thinking?" 

"If it's a bunch, we're dead. We'll run them around town and wecould try to outrun them or shoat it out with them, but you knowthe adds there. If it's just one car, waiting to tell everybodyelse where the underground headquarters is, I have an idea." 

"Hit me with the idea before I start trying to access thePtolemais mainframe again." 

"Why? If you don't life my idea, you don't look? Is that it? " 

"Chloe, don't do this. Mac is in more imminent danger, and wehave no idea where Sebastian is yet, so I have to prioritize." 

"Sorry. I'll make it quick. If they're looking to us to lead themto the underground, we'll lead them to one. Only it won't be thereal one. It'll be some other unfortunate citizens who'll getraided soon." 


"I like it." 

"That's a relief.' 

"No, I really do. And I think you two are small potatoes to them.
Not that you're in the clear. Getting out of that airport tonightis going to be next to impossible, but they probably assume youhave nowhere to go anyway and they can round you up when you tryto leave. They want the locals." 

"And we're going to lead them to 'em, only not really." 

"Back to you as soon as I can." 

"Stop the racket or I'll kill you!" Elena yelled. 

George heard no one else. He kept pounding. How was she going toreach the lock? unlock it? open the doors? 

She swore, and he heard movement. She was dragging something nearthe elevator. He heard the key in the lock, then heard it turnover. It sounded like she had stepped down from the chair orwhatever she had used to elevate herself. Now she was trying toopen the doors. Not even Plato had been able to do it alone.
George just sat there pounding. 

"I'm trying to get to you!" she said. "But when I do, you'regoing to be sorry." 

Thump! 

Thump! 

Thump! 


"I'll shoot through the door!" 
Thump! 
Thump! 


Thump! 
"You'd better cut that out, and I'm not kidding!" 
He could tell she was struggling with the doors. There was no way


she could open them. If only he could get her to forget they were
unlocked. He quit banging. 
"That's better! " 
He heard her step up again. The key was going into the lock. 
Thump! 
Thump! 


Thump! 
"No! I'm onto you! I'm locking it, and you can just thump all
night!" 


She locked it. 
George stood and found the other boot. He put one on each hand.
Now he leaned forward with his hands above his head, the boots
pressing against the doors. He dragged them as he slowly slid to
the floor and let them drop. George made sure his knee hit first,


hard. Then his hip, then his side, then the boots, then his
hands. He lay still. 
"You finished playing around in there? . . . Huh? Are you? . . .


You're going to get yourself shot! . . . You okay in there? . . . 



Hey! " 

She swore again, and he heard her on the phone. ". . . wasbanging around in there. I threatened to shoot him and he quit,
but now I think he's passed out . . . because it sounded like it. . . like he collapsed. You know there's no air in there. Noventilation. Where? I'll look." 

She slapped the doors twice. "Hold on in there. I'll get you someair." 

Chang found the tape of radio transmissions among local GCPeacekeepers in Ptolemais, but the duality was so poor, theconversion facility couldn't turn it into readable words. Hedownloaded it into his own computer and tried listening throughearphones. 

"Chloe," he reported, "I'm guessing, so what you do with this istotally up to you. I believe there is only one car following you,
and it's not official GC. They've farmed out your surveillance totwo Morale Monitors. They're armed, of course, but all they'resupposed to do is report who you warn about a raid." 

"But you're guessing." 

"I have to be honest, Chloe. I'm pretty sure that's what Iheard." 

"How sure are you?" 

"Fifty five percent." 

She laughed. 

"That's funny?" 

"No. It's just that I was hoping for at least sixty. If I can getyou to move to sixty, I'll buy this car today." 


"Pardon? " 

"Nothing. Could it be sixty forty?" 

"Max " 

"We're going to give it a go." 

Elena was still on the phone, but George had to press his earflat against the elevator door to hear, and unless she wasshouting, he could barely make it out. 

"On the wall next to the elevator?" it seemed she was saying.
"Yeah. Gray door. Got it. There's dozens of them in here, man.... Well, like furnace, air, water heater yeah, they sound likedownstairs stuff .... How should I know? About twenty of themlook like that stuff. Okay, twenty one and further . . . okay,
maybe this is first floor .... Alarm system, emergency lights,
outside lights, stairwell lights, elevator .... Different one forvent, fan, or light? Doesn't look like it .... Yeah, all on one .
. . . But I have to. He's going to suffocate in there . . . . No!
Prop those open even an inch and I'd have to watch hint everysecond. 

"What if I turned it on but kept the doors locked? . . . Everyfloor? So I lock them on every floor. Then there's nowhere forhim to go, right? . . . I'll call you. " 

George heard her leave the lobby and start up some stairs. Hekept his ear against the door and could feel and hear her lockingthe outer elevator doors on the three floors above him. So she 
was going to flip on the circuit breaker for the elevator so thefan would run and he could get some ventilation. That wouldn'tdo. He had to somehow get her to open the doors. 


She would be listening for the fan and for evidence of his beingconscious. George reached up and felt the fan and the lights,
pushing firmly around the sides. The panels were screwed ontight, but housings were hooked to wiring above the car, so thosehad to be the weakest panels in the ceiling. He pulled the gloveson and pushed hard. The metal was too tough and sharp 

in some places, even with the gloves on. Elena had to be nearlyall the way back down. 

George quickly slipped on the socks and boots, bent low, andstood on his hands, quietly walking up the sides of the car untilthe soles pressed against the ceiling. He toed around until hewas sure he was pushing against light and fan, then stiffened hislegs and pushed up from the floor with all his strength. 

The fluorescents popped and fell; the fan blades bent and twistedand began to give way. His biceps shook and his chest ached, buthe continued to push as if his life depended on it. He felt thepanels tear away and the housing break away from the wires. Theceiling had to be a mess. 

George tried to keep from gasping or making noise as he slowlybrought his feet back down and lay panting on the floor,
carefully brushing the debris into a corner. He heard Elena hurrypast toward the circuit breaker box and flip the breaker all theway off and then back on. The lights of the floor buttons on thepanel came on, and he heard a hum in the ceiling where the lightand fan should have been. 

Trying to regulate his breathing, George turned himself around,
laced up the boots and, catlike, moved into position. 

"Getting any air in there?" Elena called out. She slapped thedoor. "Hey! Better?" 

George got on all fours and crept backward until his feet wereflat against the back wall. He reared up onto his knees until his 


seat was planted on his calves. Then 

he leaned forward and placed his palms on the floor, turned hisface to the right, and lay his left cheek and ear flat on thefloor. He fought to breathe deeply and slowly, preparing himselfto hold his breath and appear dead. 

Two more smacks on the door. "C'mon! That fan should be running.
Is it? Give me a knock if you're getting any air!" 

George lay there, crouched back against the wall, looking for allthe world as if he had collapsed onto his face. 

"All right! I'm unlocking these doors, but if you try anything,
you're a dead man." 

Now she was up on the chair. Metal into metal. The click. Georgewas tempted to hit the Open Door button himself, but he knew shewould be standing there with her weapon leveled at him. Heblinked several times to moisten his eyes so he could lie therewith them open, unblinking, hopefully able to see enoughperipherally to know when to act. 

"I'm opening the doors, so don't move! I'd rather the brass findyou shot than dead by accident*" 

He heard her push the button, felt the car vibrate with themechanism, and the doors began to separate. He wanted to drink inthe cool, fresh air, but he dared not. In the faint light of theExit signs and a light from down the hall, he saw her in hisperipheral vision silhouetted before him, feet spread, both handson the high powered weapon. 

She swore. She took a step closer. She took her left hand off thegun and reached far his carotid artery. As 


soon as her fingers touched his skin, he knew she would know he


was alive. That touch would be his cue to spring. 
"I'll do whatever you say, Chloe," Hannah said, "but I've got a
priority higher than our getting out of here alive." 


"Mac 
"of course." 
"Me too. And George." 
"I just can't imagine he's still alive, Chloe. What's in it for


them to keep him around?" 
"Don't think that way." 
"Come on! We're not schoolkids anymore. Not thinking about it


isn't going to change whether it's true." 


"I'm just hoping they think they can still get something out of
him." 
"Well, I had limited contact with him, Chloe, but let me tell you


something. He looked like the kind of a guy who was going to do
what he was going to do, and nobody was going to make him do
different. I'll bet he hasn't given them diddly." 


"Pull over there." 
"You're sure this will work?" 
"Sure? I have to be sure?" 
"Let's just not be too obvious." 
"That's why you're stopping here and not at the front door,


Hannah. When I head for the store, you stand outside the car,
like you're watching for nosey nellies." 



"Nosey nellies ? " 
"You know, GC or Morale Monitors nosing around." 
"Nosey nellies ? " 
"I didn't know that was s obscure. I forgot you grew up on a


reservation." 


"Well, I will be looking for GC or MMs. So what do I do if they
show up?" 
"They won't. They just want to raid whoever we're warning. " 
"(fir at least there's a percent chance of that." 
"Srxty. " 
"So a percent chance they arrest us, or worse." 
"You're carrying an Uzi. I've seen what you can do with a


shotgun, and I can only imagine what you might do with a DEW." 


"I'm just telling you, Chloe. If anybody comes, I'm jumping back
in the car, honking the horn, and coning to get you." 
"Well, I should hope so." 


At the first sensation of skin on skin, George Sebastian calledon all his years of training, football, and lifting. As he pushedoff the floor with his palms and drove his heels into the back ofthe elevator, the massive quads and hamstrings in his thighsdrove him up and into Elena, who had murdered her last believer. 


George's pounds slammed into her so fast and hard that as hewrapped his arms around her waist he 

felt the top of his head push her stomach against her spine. Sheprojectile regurgitated over him into the elevator before herface banged off his back and her boots hit his knees. 

He sailed four feet high and ten feet into the lobby with herbody folded in two. When he landed, his chest pinned her legs,
her torso whiplashed, and the back of her head was crushed flaton the marble floor. George pounced to his feet and ripped theweapon from her hand. He stuffed her phone and radio in hispockets, then grabbed her by the belt and slung her lifeless bodyinto the elevator. He locked the doors and left the key on thechair she had used to reach the lock. 

George laid a small rug from near the entry door over the gorewhere she had died and used the gloves to wipe up the blood trailto the elevator. He was about to charge out the back door to seeif he could find a car to hot wire when he heard keys in theentry door and looked up to see an old man smiling and waving athim. 

The man wore a mismatched custodial uniform and carried two mops.
As he entered, he said something in Greek. 

"English?" George said, certain he was flushed and looked like anescaped hostage who had just killed his captor. 

"I was wonder if elevator still to not work." 

"Yes " 

"Work?" 

"No. " 


"Not to work." 

Tim LaHaye & Jerry B. Jenkins 

"Right." 

"Okay. Howdy, English, how are you?" 

"Fine. Good bye, sir." 

"Bye bye to you." 

Chloe set her Uzi, gripping it with her right hand, and reachedwith her left to open the door. As soon as Hannah stopped the carin the shadows of an alley three blocks from Chloe's target, shestepped out and moved quickly. 

Tempted to look back or to glance from right to left for GCPeacekeepers, Chloe kept her eyes on the storefront, whereearlier that day she had watched the bombing of Petra ontelevision. The place was dark, but in the back were at least twoapartments with lights burning. 

She banged loudly on the glass door with the heel of her hand. Itwould be customary for the locals to ignore such a knock,
assuming a drunk was stumbling around at that hour of the night.
So she persisted until she heard someone call out, "Closed!" 

She banged and banged some more. Finally a light and a door, anda craggy man in a bathrobe and slippers ventured out. "What isit? Who are you?" 

"G!" she stage whispered. "Open up. Just a moment, please." 

He came, scowling, but would not open the door. "What do youwant?" 


"I have an urgent message for you, sir, but I don't want to yell


it aloud." 
He shook his head and unlatched the door but would open it only a
couple of inches. "What's so urgent?" 


"I wanted to tip you off, sir, about a sweep through this
neighborhood tonight, probably later." 
"A what? A sweep?" 
"A raid." 


"Looking for what?" he said, pointing to his forehead and his . 
"For that," she said. "You are a loyal citizen, so we wanted to
warn you early so you would not be alarmed." 


"Well, you alarmed me!" 
"I apologize. Good night." 
He slammed and locked the door without a word, and Chloe hurried


back to the car. "Well, that went well," she said. "Zap anybody?" 
Hannah pulled away. "That?" 
"With the ray gun." 
"Is this how you cover your fear? Banter?" 
"Must be. I'm numb all over." 
"I saw no one, Chloe. I don't know what that means. Either


they're very, very good, or we're paranoid." 



"Probably both. We could hang around and see if the GC comelooking for the underground." 

"I hope you're not serious." 

"of course not, but you have to admit it would be fun. Especiallywhen they ask that old guy if he was tipped off about the raid." 

"Where to now, Batgirl?" 

"I feel like we're sitting ducks, Hannah. We can't call Macunless we know he's somewhere he can talk. Chang will tell uswhat he can when he can. I say we look for somewhere we can waitwithout being seen, and watch for Mac and George." 

"You're dreaming." 

Rayford had been assigned a tent at Petra and was about to settledown for the night. He couldn't imagine sleeping after all he hadexperienced. As he studied the stars, he heard his phone, rolledup onto his side, and dug it out from his bag. He didn'trecognize the calling number. 

Rayford affected a Middle Eastern accent he was sure was awful.
"This is Atef Naguib," he said. 

" Ray 

"Who is calling, please?" 

"I memorized two numbers," the caller said. "Yours and Chang's.
But this is not a secure phone, and I didn't want to expose him." 

"Sebastian?" Rayford sat up. "They found you?" 

"mho's they? I just busted loose. Is there a safe house aroundhere? Somewhere I can crash until I figure a way out?" 


Rayford was suddenly on his feet. He gushed the information aboutthe Trib Force contingent in Greece and how Sebastian could getto the local Co op. "I'll get to Chang and have him let theothers know."

 blank 

Chapter 

MAC LAY in the dewy grass next to the Jeep, overcome withgratitude though aware that neither he nor his team was out ofthe woods yet. His overheated body arched and drew in the nightair, and he thanked God over and over for having given him thestrength to run this far. 

He had barely been able to respond when Chang told him all thathad gone on, but it quickly became obvious that of the fourfugitives in Greece, Chloe and Hannah were now in the mostimmediate danger. 

They had been followed, were in a GC vehicle, were in Ptolemais,
and did not dare try to get to the Co op, even on foot. They wereheavily armed, but also inexperienced. George Sebastian had gonefrom most precarious to temporarily most secure, provided he hadfound the Co op. 

Mac painfully sat up and leaned back against the car. He hadlonged for and yet dreaded this operation. He 

had wanted to spring George, but the odds were so bad. When ithad started, he thrilled to how easy it had seemed to snow thelocals. Then it had gone haywire and fallen nearly hopeless. Now,
little credit to Mac, the whole multifaceted effort had becomestraightforward again. Mac now had one job: reunite with the 


other three and get out of Dodge. 


Chang was inconsolable over not discovering the connectionbetween Akbar and Stefanich before the operation started. Mactried to tell him that the whole Global Community hierarchy wasso new and spread out that no one could have anticipated thatthose two would know each other. Chang had redeemed himself bybreaking through the security and the ostensibly indecipherablecodes. He and Mac now knew more about Stefanich's and the hostagetakers' plans than they did. For one thing, Mac knew Sebastianwas on the loose. Of Stefanich, Aristotle, Plato, Socrates, andElena, the only one who knew that was dead. 

Through his fast yet thorough examination of the interactionbetween Akbar and Stefanich, Chang discovered they had hatchedthe plan to draw Mac and Chloe and Hannah into the woods. Therethey would get them to move to where they would be faroutnumbered by GC forces, most of whom had no idea what was goingon. Even if the tables had turned and Mac and his people hadgotten the drop on the Peacekeepers, few would have known enoughto give away the double cross. 

The GC expected Mac's people to lead them to the Judah iteunderground, then eventually be apprehended 

themselves. Johnson, Sebastian, Jinnah, and Irene would bereunited at local GC headquarters, then carted off to New Babylonas feathers in the cap of Stefanich, the newest palace member ofAkbar's staff. 

"Stefanich is beside himself looking for you," Chang had toldMac. "They were worried when they couldn't get through to Elenafor a while, but they have reached her now and have been assuredeverything is fine at headquarters. " 


"What do you make of that, Chang?" 

"I don't worry about it. Sebastian confirmed the Elena kill, andhe has her phone. Who knows how he bluffed them? I wouldn't putanything past him. My worry is for Chloe and Hannah. The MoraleMonitors lost them after the women led them to what the MMs 
thought was the Co op. They won't know that was phony till theyraid it. But Stefanich had so many of his people in the woods tohelp bring you three back, he was short on help in Ptolemais.
That's all changed now. Everybody's on their way back." 

The problem for Mac, he realized as he hot wired the Jeep, wasthat he could call Chloe and Hannah, but he couldn't reach the Coop or Sebastian except in person. He had an idea of how theymight all escape, but the women had to stay safe in the meantime. 

"How bizarre is that?" Chloe said. "We were probably walkingdistance from George when he came out the 

back door of GC headquarters. We could have driven him to the Coop." 

"And ruined it for everybody." 

"Well, yeah, but I'm just saying. We've got to ditch this car andget where Mac can find us." 

"The sooner the better," Hannah said. "I haven't noticed anyonefor quite a while. Let's do it now." 

"Let's at least get to the outskirts." 

"Risky. " 

"Not as risky as parking in town and walking through thestreets." 


Mac hated the thought of having to walk even a few blocks, but hecouldn't risk parking anywhere near the Co op. He left the Jeepabout a mile north and set off on foot. The trick would be to getin without getting shot, with those at the Co op on the lookoutfor GC. 

He thought about just waltzing into the pub above, but for all heknew Socrates had described him, and the whole town was watchingfor him. He was still in camouflage and armed with an Uzi notyour typical Ptolemaist out for a nightcap. 

Instead, Mac went by what Chloe and Hannah had told him of theplace and stayed in the shadows, coming the far way around,
slipping in the back door and into the tiny bathroom. The pub wasfull and noisy, and that was to his advantage. He locked thedoor, tried not to inhale deeply, and scrubbed the grease fromhis face. 

Mac didn't look much cleaner in the dingy mirror, and he wasstruck by the fatigue showing around his eyes. Some night, hethought, end we've just started. 

Mac studied the pipes. They ran straight down through the floor,
probably just a few feet from George and who knew how many localbelievers huddled in the back room of the laundry. He sat on thefloor and used an Uzi clip to tap in Morse code on the pipe.
"Seeking friend from S. D." 

He repeated the message twice more. 

Finally, return taps. Mac had nothing to write with, so he had toremember each letter. "Need assurance." 

Mac responded: "Amazing Grace." 

The reply: "More." 

He tapped out: "Let's go home." 


Back came: "Favorite angel?" 
That was easy. And only a compatriot would know that. "Michael." 
"Welcome. Hurry." 
Mac turned out the light before he opened the door, saw no


curious eyes, and hurried down the stairs. He heard a "Psst" from
the back room and ducked through the curtain, only to look down
the barrels of two Uzis in the dim light. 


A young, dark haired man appeared ready to shoot. "Let me see


your hands." 
Mac raised them, his own Uzi supplied from that very room
dangling from. his arm. 


"Is that him?" the young man asked. 
"Could be," George said. 


"If it's not," Mac said, "how do I know you're Costas ? " 
Then he realized why George had to be waffling and 
whipped off his glasses. "I used to work for Carpathia, i 
man! The freckles had to go and the hair color had to 
change. " 
"That's him," George said, stepping forward to embrace Mac. 
Several others mostly men, all ages and all armed emerged from


under piles of clothing. Only three women were there one meddle
aged, one elderly, and one in her 



late teens. The first introduced herself as Costas's j 
mother, Mrs. P. The older said, "My husband is K's 
cousin." 
A thin, wiry man who looked to be in his late seventies 


said, "That would be me." 
George pointed at the teenager. "This one answered Elena's ehone


a little while ago. Despite a very bad connection and a lot of
static, she assured her partners I was still safely locked away." 
"Nice to meet you," the girl said, adding the staticky sound as


she spoke and causing the others to smile. 
"Excellent work," Mac said. "Now, brothers and sisters, we have
no tune. There is a massive manhunt for me, and it won't be long


before they find out Elena is dead and their prisoner gone. I
have two compatriots on foot. K's cousin, are you also a Kronos. 
"I am, sir." 
"Are you the one who lent your truck to the cause?" 
He nodded solemnly. 
"And is that truck available?" 


"Two blocks from here." 


"I want to buy it." Mac pulled a huge wad of Nicks from a packet
below his knee. 
"No, no, not necessary." 



"Actually it is, because by the end of the night, it will be wellknown to the GC and you will be unable to be seen in it again." 

"I do not reed the money." 

"does the Co op? the underground?" 

"Yes," Mrs. Pappas said, and she stepped forward to take it. 

"Tell me about the truck.. Four wheel drive?" 

"Yes. But not new, not fast. Five speed manual transmission, veryheavy and powerful." 

"As soon as I connect with my other two team members, George andI will take the truck and pick them up. The GC expects us to headfor the Ptolemais airport, but that's a suicide run. We have aplane at an abandoned strip eighty miles west of here. If we canhead that way without attracting attention, that's where you'llfind the truck tomorrow. If we draw a tail, pretend you never sawthat truck." 

"I want to come," Castas said. 

"I'm sorry, no. Unless you are going all the way to America withus, there would be no way for you to help us and to also escape." 

"But I " 

"tee will accept all the ammunition you can spare. I would say ifwe leave now, our chances are only about fifty fifty. Agree,
George?" 

"No, sir. I think that's optimistic. But I agree it's our onlyoption and that we need to go now." 


Mrs. P. held up a hand. "There is nothing wrong with workingwhile someone is praying. Someone put extra ammunition clips in abag while I pray. 

"Our God, we thank you for our brothers and sisters in Christ andask you to put around them a fiery ring of protection. Give themGodspeed, we pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen." 

George took the bag and got the keys and directions to the truck,
while Mac huddled in a corner and tried to bring up Hannah andChloe on his walkie talkie. 

Chloe was on the phone to Chang when she heard Hannah take aradio message from Mac and give their location off the road andbehind underbrush north of the city. 

"This is urgent," Chang was saying. "I don't have time to calleverybody individually, so get this. All Ptolemais GCPeacekeepers and Morale Monitors are on high alert. They haveabandoned the woods and are beginning a sweep of the entire town.
We're talking hundreds of personnel and all working vehicles. 

"They've found Elena's body, know they were the victims of animpostor on her phone, and are tracing that phone with GPS. IfGeorge has it, they'll know where he is, and if he ditches it, itneeds to be far from the Co op. 

"The airport is crawling with GC, and though the Rooster Tail issitting on the tarmac as if it's ready to go, it has been drainedof fuel. If you can't get back to Mac's plane, the best I canoffer is to try to get Abdullah's pilot friend to Larnaca onCyprus tomorrow. " 


"Thanks, Chang," Chloe said. "Hannah tells me Mac and George areon their way. Forget Larnaca. We'd never get there. It soundslike the net is being drawn in all around us. Tell everyone welove them and that we're doing our best to get home." 

Mac was driving toward the north road with George in thepassenger's seat when he got the call from Chloe about Elena'sphone. "That's easy," he said, stopping in the middle of theroad. "Stick Elena's phone under the front tire, George," hesaid. 

The truck flattened the phone. 

As they reached the north road, Mac saw a sea of flashing bluelights in the distance. "We're toast," he said. 

"They're not looking for this truck," George said. "Don't doanything suspicious." 

"Like picking up two armed women?" 

"Drive on. The women will see the GC and know we'll have to come 
back." 

"When would we have time to do that?" 

"What are you going to do, Mac?" 

"They're setting up a roadblock. Stick the weapons and ammo underthe seats and get a cap on. There's a better description of youthan me out there. You can't hide big but you can cover blond." 


Chloe and Hannah lay on their stomachs, watching the long line ofGC cars, lights flashing. "There's the truck," Hannah said. 

"Most of the GC are driving by them. Guess they don't need allthose for a roadblock." 

One GC car stopped on each side of the road, and a Peacekeeperheld up a hand to stop the truck and wave through the rest of thesquad cars. 

"Hannah, if you can hear me, give me one click." 

Chloe looked at her. "Was that George?" 

Hannah nodded and clicked her walkie talkie. 

"All right, I've got Mac's radio on the seat here, and I'mstaring straight ahead and pretending not to be talking, so I maybe hard to hear. Listen carefully. If you have the DEW with youand can turn it on, give me a click." 

Hannah turned on the weapon and gave another click. 

"These guys are going to check us out. I'll leave the radiolocked open. If it sounds like they're going to look closer,
incapacitate both of them. Understand?" 

Click. 

"Here they come. Stand by. If one comes to my side of the truck,
please use very careful aim." 

Click. 

Chang was exhausted and wished he could call it a night like mosteveryone else at the palace except Suhail Akbar and the literallyindefatigable Carpathia himself, who did not require sleepanymore. Chang would not, however, be able to sleep anyway until 


Mac and Chloe and Hannah and George were safely in the air. Irestayed at his computer, available to help. Meanwhile, he tappedinto Carpathia's office. 

"I really must stay on top of this Greece thing," Akbar wassaying. "I'll return as soon as I can." 

"Is it not something you can do from here, Suhail? The nights areso long, and there is much to learn from the daylight regions." 

"Forgive me, Potentate, but we have had a serious breach ofsecurity. I am an a secure phone to Ptolemais and on a secure email connection. The situation is about to be resolved, and Iwill hurry right back." 

"And we can see how the morale effort is going in Region and in 
Region ? " 

"Of course." 

"There should be audio and video feeds where I see the last 
holdouts taking the loyalty mark, worshiping my image three timesa day, or suffering the consequences. They are suffering, arethey not?" 

"I'm sure they are, Excellency. I don't know haw you or I couldhave been clearer on that." 

"And the Jews? There are many Jews in bath those regions whomight be enjoying the sunshine right now, 

but who do not know that this is their last chance to see it. Am 
I right?" 

"You are always right, Highness. I however, few people anywhereare truly enjoying anything with the seas as they are. I don'tknow how the planet can survive such a tragedy." 


"This is the work of the Judah ites, Suhail! They tell the Jewsthey are God's chosen. Well, they are my chosen ones now. Andwhat I have chosen for them will taste bitter in their mouths. I 
want to see it, Suhail. I want to know my edicts are beingcarried out." 

"I will see to it, my lord. By the time I return, someone willhook up the monitor to reporting stations in those regions so youmay be brought up to date." 

"This security breach, Suhail. It is here, inside the palace? " 

"That's all we can conclude, sir. If such misleading, whollyfalse information can be planted on our main database from aremote location, we are much more vulnerable than we imagined.
Bad as it is, we are most certain it is coming from inside, andthat should not take long to trace." 

"You remember, Suhail, what I have asked for in the way oftreatment of the Jews, not to mention the Judahites. That wouldbe retribution far too lenient for one under my own roof whowould deceive me in such a way. " 

"I understand, sir." 

"The perpetrator must be put to death before the eyes of theworld." 

"Of course. " 

"Suhail, have we not combed our entire personnel list?" 

"We have." 

"And are there any employees of the Global Community, here oranywhere in the world, who have yet to receive the mark?" 

"Less than one thousandth of one percent, Excellency. Probably 


fewer than ten, and all loyalists with valid reasons, and all tothe best of our knowledge with plans to rectify the situationimmediately." 

"But should they not be our primary suspects? " 

"We have them closely watched, sir. And there is not one employeein the palace or in New Babylon without the mark." 

After Suhail was finally able to excuse himself and get back tothe situation in Ptolemals, Chang kept listening to Carpathia'soffice. Nicolae mumbled under his breath, but Chang could notmake it out. Occasionally he heard banging, as if Carpathia waspounding on a table or desk. Finally he heard a clatter thatsounded like Carpathia had kicked a wastebasket and stuff spilledout. 

After a few moments, Chang heard a faint knock and Carpathiacalling out, "Enter." 

"Oh, excuse me there, Potentate, sir. I'm to get your monitorhooked up to the United North American States and the UnitedSouth American States." 

Carpathia ignored him until the man was on his way out. "Clean upthis mess," he said. 

Mac decided to take the initiative with the GC Peacekeeper incharge of the roadblock and not wait to be asked for his papers.
George was slouched in the passenger seat. 

"Wow, whatcha got goin' tonight there, Chief? I haven't seen thismany of you guys on the streets since I started workin' roadmaintenance. All these guys are makin' it hard on ourconstruction zones, but you gotta do what you gotta do. What'reya lookin' for, anyway? Something I can be watchin' for?" 


"Confidential matter, sir. High level manhunt. Long day for youguys, huh?" 

"Tell me about it. We're hardly ever out this late. Had to comeback around the long way from the airport. That part of thisdeal? That place is locked up tight. Went through the roadblockthere too. They cleared us even though we don't have our paperson us, 'cause we had to work so late, asphalt and all. Goin' backto the work shed now." 

"That's no excuse to not have your papers. Everybody is supposedto have their papers all the time." 

"We know, and we both feel terrible about it. But we'll have 'emwith us on the way home." 

"They let you off down by the airport?" 

"Yeah, nice guys. I mean, we aren't Peacekeepers, but we're allworking for the people anyway, right?" 

"That's not by the book." 

"You know, I thought that very thing and really appreciated itthat he wasn't one of those hard guys that gives the workingman abad time." 

`` Well, I dons want to make your life miserable either, sir, sowe can make this real easy. How about you two just show me yourmarks of loyalty, and you can move it along." 

Chloe thought Mac had nearly talked his way out of the situation.
But if he was no threat, showing his mark would not have been aproblem. 

"Don't hesitate, Hannah," Chloe said. 


"I wish that other guy would get out of his car." 
From the walkie talkie: "You just want to see our marks? " 
"Yes, Sir. Hand or forehead?" 
"Mine's on the forehead here, under the cap. My partner's is, ah,


where is yours, bud?" 
"Hand," Sebastian said. 
"Let's have a look," the Peacekeeper said. 
"Where's yours, by the way?" Mac said. "You got the image of the


potentate too?" 
"Nah. Just the number. I'm kinda military that way." 
Chloe glanced at Hannah, then back at the truck, where Mac slowly


unlatched his seat belt and took off his cap. He leaned forward. 
"I don't see anything." 
"what? Look! " 
From the walkie talkie, George in a quiet singsong: "Now would be


the perfect time." 
The Peacekeeper spun in a circle, slammed back 


against the cab of the truck, and dropped, screaming. As heslowly started to rise, Mac said, "Say there, fella, what wasthat all about?" 

"I don't know, I ah, fire ants or something." He rubbed his backgingerly, now standing. He motioned to the officer in the otherGC car, who quickly stepped out. 


"What's the trouble?" 

"Pain in my back, like I backed into a hot pipe or something. Ithink a blister's rising." 

He leaned toward Mac again, then grabbed the back of his leg andhowled, falling and writhing. The other officer drew his weapon.
"What are you guys doing?" 

"We're not doing anything!" Mac said. "What's his problem? " 

The inside light of the truck came on, and George got out andwent toward the front with his hands raised. He must have had the 
walkie talkie in his pocket now, because Chloe could still hearhim on Hannah's radio. "Can I help in any way?" he asked. 

"Stay right where you are," the second Peacekeeper said, justbefore he flopped in the road, dropping his weapon and trying tocover his face. 

Mac Jumped out to help George. "Yank the radios in their cars,"
he said. "I'll get the ones on their uniforms." 

By now the officers were delirious, glassy eyed, and wailing.
"Ladies," George radioed, "come help us with these cars." 

Mac: disarmed the officers and tossed their weapons into the bedof the truck. He took their radios and put them in the frontseat. "Once you've got those car radios disconnected," he toldGeorge, "pop the trunks." 

Chloe and Hannah came running. "Chloe," Mac said, "you two aregoing to give us an escort. Once I get this guy in the trunk ofhis car, I'll pull the truck in behind you. Hannah, you fall inbehind once we get the other guy in his trunk." 

The GC were whimpering. "You boys hush now," Mac said. "You'regonna hurt awhile, but you're not gonna die unless you make usshoot you. We're Just going for a little ride." 


With the GC ensconced in their respective trunks, Mac carefullyturned the truck around and told George to give the women extraammo from the bag they had gotten at the Co op. With the truckand the two GC squad cars pointed west, one of the GC radioscrackled. "North roadblock, acknowledge, please." 

"North roadblock," Mac said, while only half mashing the transmitbutton. 

"Repeat? " 

"North roadblock here," he said, careful to make sure he washeard, but not perfectly. 

"Status? " 

"Busy. " 

" Carry on." 

George hopped back into the truck, and as Chloe pulled away andMac followed, George said, "kooky here. I knew there wassomething about that old gal 

I really liked." In amongst the ammunition, Mrs. P. had had Co oppeople pack bread, cheese, and fruit. "Chloe and Hannah took mostof it," George said. "And I'm gonna take most of what's leftunless you grab now." 

Mac grabbed. And the unlikely convoy rolled west into the nighttoward their ride home. How long the ruse would hold was themystery. For now, Mac enjoyed the food and the hope that they hadbeaten the odds. 

Chapter 

THE REPORT from Mac allowed hang to breathe easier for the firsttime in hours. He checked back in to Carpathia's office, where 


Akbar was debriefing the big boss. 
"We've had a setback, but there's no way this bunch can " 
"A setback? 
" 
"without going into all the details, sir, the hostage killed one


of our people a woman and has escaped. We assume he's on the run
with the three who " 
"He killed one of his captors?" 
"Yes, Highness. We assume " 


"My kind of a man. Why cannot he be on our side?" 
"We assume, sir, that he is reconnecting with the three who came
for him, and we're hoping they will be foolish enough to try to
get back to the airport. We have that sealed tight." 


"Yes, well . . ." Carpathia sounded distracted, as if the rest of
the story was not as interesting. "Suhail, how was damage control
today?" 


"Too early to tell, sir." 


"Come, come, I count on you as one who does not try to simply
appease me. They heard the pilot's report, and my telling them he
was mistaken, that the bombs had missed their targets. Well, what
are people saying?" 


"I honestly don't know, Excellency. I have spent my entire day
between your office and my own, trying to ride herd on this
Greece thing." 



"Let me tell you this, Suhail: The disc from the plane clearlyshoves direct hits and those traitors burning! Whatever is themagic that allows those people to survive simply cannot extendoutside that area." 

"Begging your pardon, but not that long ago we lost ground troopsoutside " 

"I know that, Suhail! Do you think I do not know that?" 

"Apologies, Potentate." 

"I want us to find the safe place surrounding that area, where wehave not seen our weapons of war swallowed up by the earth, andfrom which we can stop all traffic in and out. They will needsupplies, and we must see that they do not get them." 

"Our armed forces have been so decimated, Sir " 

"Are you telling me we have no pilots or planes that can cut offsupplies to Petra?" 

"No, Sir. I'm sure we can do that. Ah, on another matter, sir,
our ancient text experts say that the next 

curse could be that the lakes and rivers of the world fall into 
the same predicament as the seas." 
"Freshwater sources all turn to blood?" 
"Yes, sir." 


"Impossible! Everyone would die! Even our enemies." 
"There are those who believe the Judah ites will be protected, as
they have been against our forces recently." 



"where will they get their water?" 
"The same place they got their protection. Perhaps there is


wisdom in negotiating with their leader to have the curses
lifted." 
"Never! " 
"Not to be contrary, sir, but we cannot survive long with this


devastation. And if the rivers and lakes do also turn " 


"You are not aware of everything, Suhail. I too have supernatural
power." 
"I have seen it, sir." 
"You will see more. Reverend Fortunato is prepared to match the


wizardry of the Judah ites blow for blow, and he has designates
who can do this around the world. " 
"Well, that " 
"Now show me what I want to see, Suhail." 
"North roadblock, this is Central." 
"Roadblock," Mac said. "Go ahead, Central." 
"Disposition of suspicious truck?" 


"Repeat?" 


"One of our squads reported that your first stop after they
passed was a truck." 
"Affirmative. Clean." 
"Traveling west to east?" 



"Affirmative." 

"we traced a cell phone to the west side of the city and then

east before losing it." 

Mac looked at George. "What do they want to hear?" 

"You know nothing about that." 

Mac transmitted. "Can't help you there." 

"Truck proceeded east?" 

"Roger that." 

"You reported lots of traffic." 

"Ten four." 

" busy ?" 

"Affirmative. " 

"Squads said they saw nothing but the truck when they passed." 

"Busy now." 

"What's your ten twenty, roadblock?" 

Mac looked at George again. "'They're onto us." 

George pulled the weapons from beneath the seat and Rayford's


walkie talkie from his pocket. "Jinnah, Irene, be advised. We'll
soon have company." 
Mac clicked the GC radio button a few times. "Repeat," he said. 
"Your ten twenty, roadblock. What's your location?" 



Chang froze. He had been nearly dozing, listening to Carpathiaand Akbar's sparring while they watched reports from the UnitedNorth American States and the United South American States. He 
had not kept up with the Ptolemais project. 

The local GC had traced Elena's cell phone to the west side ofthe city, and it had remained in one location for more than anhour. Commander Nelson Stefanich and the survivors of the 
philosopher team were personally leading the raid on a pub inthat area. 

He phoned Mac. 

"Talk fast, Chang. We may be in deep weeds here. " 

"How far west of the city are you?" 

"Not sure. I've had this thing floored, but I don't think it goesfaster'n fifty. They chasin' us?" 

"Are you too far from the Co op to help them?" 

"Depends. What's up?" 

"GC's raiding the pub right now. You know the next thing to gowill be the Co op." 

"Any chance they got out?" 

"Can't imagine. I couldn't warn them." 

"I'm guessing we're less than thirty minutes from our plane.
We'll go back if you think we can help." 

"Hang on, a report's coming through. Judah ite undergrounddiscovered beneath pub. Firefight. Sixteen GC dead, and anotherdozen injured. Building grenaded and torched. Several adjacentbuildings destroyed. No enemy survivors." 


While Mac filled in George, the GC continued to try to reach Macon the radio, asking for some kind of a code. "We've blocked offboth ends of the north road due to the raid, so wrap it up," theysaid. "Still need your all clear code." 

George looked devastated and tried to grab the GC radio from Mac.
"I'll give 'em an all clear code." 

"Take it easy, friend." 

"This was my fault, Mac! What was I thinking, hanging on to thatphone?" 

"I wish we could have gone back," Mac said. "I'd like to havetaken out a few of them myself. But our brothers and sisters arein heaven, and it sounds like they put up some kind of a fight." 

"That's it?" George said. "We're supposed to feel good because Igot a bunch of people killed and now they're in heaven?" 

"Need the all clear code now," the radio said. 

"I ought to tell them it's Psalm :," Mac said. "I know what I'dlike to tell 'em. Have the women stop and we'll get those GC totell us the code." "They'd probably give away where we are." "Notwith the DEW starin' 'em in the face. Let me get it out of 'em,
Mac. Please. I've got to do this." "Chloe, pull it over," Macsaid. "Right now?" "Right now." "We okay?" "Temporarily." 

Mac's phone chirped. Chang. "Stefanich and Plato and a bunch ofGC are looking for the truck and the two GC squads. They'reheading west." 

"Let's make this quick," Mac said, jumping out as Chloe emergedand Hannah pulled up behind. 


"Pop that trunk, Chloe," George said, "and Hannah, .et me have


the DEW." 
Chloe opened the trunk, and Mac shone a flashlight .n on the
nearly wasted Peacekeeper. George pulled him From the trunk with
one hand, and he lay crying on :he ground. "Blisters," he sobbed.
"Careful, please. Dr kill me." 


"You'd like that, wouldn't you?" George said, wieldng the DEW.
"See this?" 


The man opened one eye and nodded miserably. 
"This S What cooks your flesh, and there's plenty pore juice in
it. " 


"Please, no." 
George turned it on, and the thing whirred to life. 
"Please! " 
He aimed it at the man's ankle, and the man stiffened, whining.


"Give me your all clear code." 
"What?" 
"You heard me. Give me the all clear or " 
"It's in the glove box! In my book!" 
Chloe went to check. She brought back a small, black Bather ring


binder. "It's full of all kinds of notes," she ;aid. 
George took it and dropped it onto the man. 
"We've got to get rolling," Mac said. "They're never 



going to buy the all clear from us now anyway. They're on theirway. " 

"These guys are deadweight," George said. "Maybe we can slow theothers by leaving them here in the road." 

The man was ripping through the pages. He gingerly held thenotebook up to the light from the truck's headlamp. "It's one onesix four eight! " he said. 

George dragged him onto the road while Mac brought the other fromthe other car. The men lay writhing. "Just kill us," the secondone pleaded. 

"You don't know what you're asking," George said. "Bad as thisis, trust me, you should prefer it." 

"Leave one of the cars here," Mac said. "Block the road with itand the truck. It won't take the GC long to get around them, butany slowdown has to help." 

Chloe maneuvered one car nose to nose with the truck across the 
highway; then they ripped out the distributor caps from bothvehicles and took the keys. 

"Last call for clear code," the radio said. 

Mac hollered it into the mike. Then, "Chloe, you drive. And keepit to the floor. I'll ride shotgun. I don't expect them to catchus now, but everybody stay armed and ready." 

George put the DES in the trunk and climbed in the back withHannah. The economy car was too small for the four of them andseemed to groan with the weight, but Chloe soon had the thingchugging along at over seventy miles an hour. 

George said, "So, Mac, what's Psalm : ?" 


Mac turned as far as he could in the seat. " `o God,"' he said,
"`to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth!"' 

The GC radio came to life again. "We need an immediate tentwenty. Personnel on the north road report zero traffic and nosign of you." 

"Give me that," George said, pulling it from Mac's hand. Hemashed the button. "Yeah, you'll find us at Psalm :. " 

Chang fixed himself some tea, adding a strange concoction thatincluded instant coffee with the highest concentration ofcaffeine he could find. He would crash when this ordeal was over,
but he couldn't risk dozing now. It was clear the Greek GC had abead on his people, and it wouldn't be long before they figuredout Mac must have a plane at the abandoned strip not twentyminutes more up the road. He certainly wasn't going to escapeinto Albania. How long would it take Mac and his people to board,
and how far could they get before needing to refuel? 

Meanwhile, from what Chang could hear, Carpathia was at leastentertained if not totally distracted by feeds from his regionswhere it was still daytime. The potentate for Region o, theUnited South American States, announced an event he said hiswife, "the first lady," was personally attending right then. 

"And where are you while she is doing your work?" Carpathiaasked. 

"Oh, my revered risen one, you may rest assured that I am doingthe greater work. We have taken you at your word regarding theeffort to root out infidels here, and I am working closely withour Peacekeepers and Morale Monitors, as well as with civilianundercover groups. We expect to have dozens more face theguillotine or take your mark within twenty four hours." 

"Dozens? My dear friend, we are hearing from your compatriots 


around the world that some are finding hundreds, even thousands,
who will suffer for their disloyalty. Some are stepping upefforts even in our part of the world, in the dark of night." 

The South American sighed. "Sir, sadly, we are so dependent onthe seas that our forces have been dramatically reduced." 

"But surely so have your dissidents, have they not?" 

"That is true. But please, allow me to take you live to Uruguay,
where my wife attends the public ceremony culminating in loyaltyenforcement." 

Chang switched quickly to Mac and his crew nothing new thentapped into the video feed from the United South American States.
The first lady was receiving enthusiastic applause. She had herarm around a shy looking middle aged man. "This gentleman isfinally getting his mark of loyalty to our risen potentate!" 

More cheering. 

"And tell us, Andrs, what took you so long?" 

"I was afraid," he said, smiling. 

"Afraid of what?" 

"The needle." 

Many laughed and cheered. 
"But you will do it today?" 
"A very small , yes," he said. 
"You are no longer afraid of the needle?" 



"Yes, I am still. But I fear the blade much more." 


The crowd cheered and continued to applaud as Andres sat stifflyfor the application of the mark. His forehead was swabbed,
someone held his hand, the machine was applied, and he lookedgenuinely relieved and happy. 

The first lady said, "You may now return to what you were doingwhen you were discovered without the mark." 

The camera followed Andres as he ran back to the image ofCarpathia and fell to his knees before it. The first lady toldthe crowd, "Andres avoided detection for so long because heobeyed the decree to worship the image, and no one suspected." 

Carpathia did not seem impressed. "He worships me and yet he isafraid of a little pinprick. Agh! " 

"But you will be most pleased, Potentate," the South Americanleader said. "Following the leads of several loyal citizens, wehave uncovered a den of opposition. Six were killed when theyresisted arrest, but thirteen have been brought to this worshipand enforcement center. " 

"How many will tale the mark now?" Carpathia said. "How many havehad their attitudes adjusted by the very presents of layaltyenforcement facilitor?" 

"Well, uh, actually none so far sir." 

Chang heard a fist slam. "Stubborn!" Carpathia said. "Sostubborn. Why are these people so resolute? so stupid? soshortsighted?" 


"Today they will pay, Highness." 


"Right now, even as we speak?" Carpathia's voice evidenced his
excitement. 
"Yes, right now" 
"What is the music?" 
"The condemned ones hum and sing, my lord. It is not uncommon. " 
"Shut them up!" 
"One moment. Excuse me, sir." He called to someone in the


background, "forge! Communicate to the officers at the site thatthe supreme potentate does not allow the music. Yes, now! YourHighness, it will be stopped." 

"These have definitely chosen the blade?" 
"They have, sir. They are in line." 
"What are we waiting for?" 
"Only to carry out your wish to stop the music, sir." 
"Get on with it! The blade will silence them." 
Chang recoiled when he saw a guard with a huge rifle and bayonet


nudging the first person in line, a woman who appeared to be inher late twenties. She was singing, her face turned towardheaven. The guard yelled at her, but she did not acknowledge. Hebumped her and she stumbled, but still she sang, eyes upward. 

He jabbed her in the ribs with the butt of the rifle, and shedropped to one knee, then rose and continued singing. Now he sethimself to her side, planted his feet, and drove the bayonetthrough her arm and into her side. She 


cried out as the bayonet was removed, and she reached with herother hand to press it over the wound. Her singing now came insobs as the people behind her fell to their knees. 

"What is she singing?" Carpathia demanded. 

The sound was enhanced, and Chang found himself breathless as helistened to the woman's pitiful, labored singing. She could nolonger hold up her head, but she stood wobbling, clearly woozy,
struggling to sing, ". . . did e'er such love and sorrow meet, orthorns compare so rich a crown?" 

The guard was joined by others, swinging the stocks of theirrifles at the heads of those who bowed. 

"Tell the guards to stop making a spectacle of it!" Carpathiaraged. "They are playing right into these people's hands. Let thecrowd see that no matter what they do or say or sing, still theirheady belong to us!" 

The guillotine was readied as the woman continued to force outthe lyrics, though she had long since lost the tune. As she wasgrabbed by guards on each side and wrestled into place, she criedout, ". . . demands my soul, my life, my all!" 

The blade dropped and the crowd erupted. 

"Aah! " Carpathia sighed. "Can we not see from the other side? " 

"The other side, sir?" the South American potentate repeated. 

"Of the blade! Of the blade! Get a camera around there! The bodydoes not drop! It merely collapses. I want to see the head drop!" 


The next several in line approached the killing machine withtheir palms raised. The guards kept grabbing their elbows andpulling down their arms, but the condemned kept raising them. Theguards slashed at their hands with bayonets, but the peopleinstinctively moved and mostly avoided being cut. 

The guards moved in behind them and prodded them with bayonetpoints in the lower back. Now the camera moved around behind aman who held a safety lever with one hand and used the other tograb the hair of the victim and pull the head into place. Helowered the restraining bar onto the neck, let go of the lever,
and nodded to a matronly woman. She yanked at the release cord. 

The blade squealed against the guides as it dropped in a flash,
and the head fell out of sight, blood erupting from the neck. 

"That is more like it!" Carpathia whispered. 

"We're home free, aren't we?" Hannah said. 

Mac turned to look at her. "My plane has about enough fuel to getus to Dome. There's a small airstrip south of there manned by Coop 
people who stockpile fuel. I'm not going to feel safe until wetake off from there." 

"But these people, I mean," she said. "They'll never reach thisairport before we do, will they?" 

"Not in cars." 

"What're you saying?" George said. 

"It won't take 'em long to guess where we're going. They won'tthink we're trying to beat 'em to the border by car." 


"Your plane hidden?" 
"From auto traffic, sure. From the air? No." 
"How long would it take them to fly here?" 
"Out of Kozani, in a fighter? They could beat us there." 
"Could they destroy your plane?" 
"Only if they get there first." 
"How much personnel could they bring?" 
"Not many if they use a small, quick plane." 
George sounded irritated. "This has been too much work to see it


fail now, Mac. Let's get it all on the table. You hoping we just
show up, climb aboard, and take off?" 


"That's the only plan I've got," Mac said. 
"We've got to figure they'll beat us there," George said, "and
decide what to do about that." 


"You want to assume the worst?" 


"Of course! We have to. You think I got away from those idiots by
hoping they'd let me go? Tell me about this airstrip." 
"Runs east and west. I'm at the east end, facing west." 
"If they can get a plane in there before we take off, all they


have to do is get in our way." 
"Let's get in their way first," Mac said. "I'll dump you guys at
the plane; you get the engines warm while I drive out onto the
runway and sit directly in our path. They're going to have to be
pretty crafty and flexible to avoid hitting me on landing. When 



we take off, we angle enough to miss the car and them, and we'regone." 

George shook his head. "And when do you board? You're leaving alot to chance." 

"Leaving it to God, George. I don't know what else to do." 

Mac's phone buzzed. "Go, Chang." 

"They're in a jet ten minutes from touchdown. Stefanich, thethree philosophers, and a pilot. Plane does not appear to beoffensively equipped, but they are heavily armed." 

"We're closer than that," Mac said. "We just have to beat 'em,
that's all." 

He asked Chloe if she could get any more out of the little car,
but it was whining as it was, speeding along on a bad road. "Whenwe get there, get off the road and come in on the east end." 

Mac was giving Sebastian instructions about the plane when hethought he heard the scream of jet engines in the distance. Heand George rolled down their windows to listen. "That's ourclearing, Chloe! Easy!" 

She whipped off the road, down into a ravine, and up the otherside. The car bounced and jerked, and Mac's head hit the ceiling.
"Use your brights ! I have no idea what's out here." 

"Am I going to be able to get through those trees?" she said. 

"Assume you will. Just get us there." 

Chloe hit a rocky patch that threw the car into the air. When itlanded, the left rear tire blew. "Great!" she said. "At least it 


is in the back," George said. Stand on it!" 

With the brights on, Chloe saw only uneven, rocky terrain up to athick grave of trees. She couldn't imagine a way through, butthere was no turning back now. The left rear side was draggingfrom the flat as if someone had dropped an anchor. It didn't helpthat Sebastian, the biggest person in the car, sat back there. 

With the let looming, Chloe wished she could kill the lights andjust plow on through. But it had all come down to timing. Anddetermination. These were the people who had killed her comradesand who would now snuff out this little surviving band of TribForcers without a thought. 

Chloe had wanted action, to be in the thick of it. And though shewould do whatever it took to get back to Buck and Kenny, she wasalready long past any option but recklessness. Caution,
diplomacy, trickery that was all out the window now. She had toget to that plane and they had to take off, or none of them wouldsee the sun rise again. 

She picked her way through the trees, only occasionally liftingher foot from the accelerator. The little car had front wheel 
drive, a small blessing in a bad situation. Making her own path,
she smacked the car against a tree first on one side, then theother, and kept going. 

Now she could see Mac's plane, but a three wire fence was in theway. Slowing even a bit could make the car get tangled in it. Sheglanced at Mac, who braced himself with a palm on the ceiling. Hemerely nodded at the fence as if she had no choice. Chloe keptthe accelerator 

down, and the car caught the lower wire, made the top two slip 


over the hood, pulled a wood post from the ground, and snappedits way through to the edge of the runway, forty feet from theplane. 

Banking at the other end came the GC jet, landing lightsilluminating the strip all the way to the car. 

Chapter 

FOR THE first time since he had been running the point for theTribulation Force at the palace complex, Chang wondered if he hadbeen found out. His computer screen was suddenly ringed with ared border, meaning an outside source was testing his firewall. 

He immediately switched to a screen saver that scrolled the dateand time and temperature, cut all the lights in his apartment,
disrobed, and jumped into bed prepared to look as if he had beensleeping, should Figueroa or one of his minions come knocking.
There was really no way of knowing what the warning meant, butDavid Hassid had told him he had built the security in just toalert the operator that someone was nosing around. 

Maybe someone was checking to see every computer that was turnedon. Who knew whether the search was capable of hacking in andfinding out who the mole was? 

The latter didn't seem possible, if David could be believed. Hehad rigged the system so elaborately that it seemed therewouldn't be enough years left before the Glorious Appearingbefore someone could decode it. Chang's mind began playing games. 


Perhaps Akbar had instructed Figueroa to sense every computerrunning, eliminate the mainframe that ran the whole place,
isolate the laptops and personal computers, and do a fast doortodoor search to see what people were up to. 

Chang's computer would show no record of what he had been doingduring the hours since he got back from his office. For thatreason, he hoped someone would show up and check. 

As he lay there in the darkness, heart galloping, Chang wasfrustrated at having to quit monitoring Greece. Ironic, hethought, that with all the technology God had allowed them toadapt for the cause of Christ around the world, he was suddenlyleft with nothing to do to help, except old fashioned praying. Hewished he could check the bugs in Carpathia's and Akbar's officesonce more to see if the computer recording showed them giving adirective. It wouldn't be long before someone at the highestlevel ran out of patience with all the hacking going on. 

Chang eased out of bed and onto the cold floor, kneeling to prayfor Mac and Chloe and Hannah and George. "Lord, I don't see howthey can escape now, outside your direct help. I don't know ifit's their time to join you, and I have never assumed ourthoughts were your thoughts. Everything happens in your time 

for your pleasure, but I pray for them and the people who lovethem. Whatever you do I know will prove your greatness, and I askthat I be able to know soon what it was. Also, please be withMing as she searches for our parents, and may they be able tocommunicate with me somehow." 

Chang felt the urge to let Rayford know what was going on. Helooked at his watch. It was well after midnight, but would thepeople in Tetra be sleeping after all that had gone on there thatday? Nothing indicated that his phone was not still secure, so hedialed. 


"Out! Out!" Mac hollered as the doors flew open. "Let me overthere, Chloe. I've got to get in the way of that jet." 

"I'll crank 'er up," Sebastian told Mac, "but I'm not inclined toleave without you." 

"Listen, George. You do what you have to do. Worrying about memight distract 'em long enough for you to get in the air. Ifthat's what it takes, I'll see you at the Eastern Gate." 

"Don't talk like that!" 

"Don't get emotional on me now. Get yourselves on home! " 

Mac waited a beat for George to back away from the car, and whenhe didn't, Mac just floored it and wobbled down the runway, inline with the jet that was just about to touch down. 

Rayford was not asleep, but he had finally settled and wasbreathing easier, gazing at the stars through a slit in the tent.
His phone indicated Chang was calling. 

"Give me good news," he said. 

"I wish I could," Chang said, "but I think the Lord just wantedme to let you know so you could pray." 

Rayford didn't feel as glib as he sounded, but when he heard thestory, he said, "God protected a million people in a fieryfurnace; he can get four out of Greece." 

He slipped on his sandals and hurried to where Tsion and Chaimwere to bed down. If they were sleeping, he would not wake them.
It didn't surprise him to find them awake and huddled around acomputer with some of the other elders. At the keyboard was the 


young woman, Naomi, who had summoned him earlier. 

"Tsion, a word," Rayford said. 

Dr. Ben Judah turned, surprised. "I thought you were sleeping, aswe all should be. Big day tomorrow." 

Rayford brought him up to date. 

"We will pray, of course, right now. But get back to Chang andtell him the computer warning was a false alarm. Naomi has beenexulting in the hundreds of pages of instructions David builtinto the system here, including one that allows us to check thepalace computers. That is what she has been doing, and that sentChang's computer a warning." 

Tsion hurried back to the elders and asked them all to pray forthe safety of the Tribulation Force contingent in Greece. To seea dozen and a half people immediately go 

to their knees for his people warmed Rayford, and he couldn'twait to get back to Chang. 

When George Sebastian's foot hit the first step up to the plane,
he heard the engines whine and then scream to life. He had notrealized either of the women knew how to fly. So much the better.
He squatted to pull the door up behind him, but when he turnedtoward the cockpit, he noticed both Chloe and Hannah strappingthemselves into the back two seats. They looked as surprised ashe felt. 

George set his Uzi and pressed his back up against the bulkheadthat separated the cabin from the cockpit. He slowly edged aroundto where he could peer up front to see who was there. Thesurprise pilot, in brown and beige Bedouin type robes, wasworking from the copilot's chair. Without turning, the man raiseda hand and motioned George toward the pilot's chair. 


George pulled back and faced the women. "Who is that?" 

"We thought it was you," Chloe said. 

"We've got to get him off here or we won't have room for Mac.
Cover me." 

Chloe unstrapped and knelt behind George with her Uzi ready.
Hannah raised her weapon and stood on the arm of her seat so shecould peer over George's head into the cockpit. 

Sebastian hopped into view of the copilot's chair. Empty. "Allrighty then," George said, exhaling loudly 

and climbing over the back of the seat to take the controls. Hejammed on the earphones. "Why doesn't God just let these guys dothe flying?" 

"I can do that too," a voice said. 

George jumped and saw the reflection of the man in thewindshield. But when he looked to his right, the copilot's chairwas still empty. "Quit that!" George said, his pulse racing. 

"Sorry. " 

"Michael, I suppose." 

"Roger." 

George saw Mac and the rattling GC car struggling down the runwayin the face of the oncoming jet. He wanted to ask Michael if hewouldn't be more help riding next to Mac. 


"Illuminate landing lights," he heard. 

"For takeoff?" 

"Roger. " 

Sebastian wasn't about to argue. He flipped on the landinglights, which merely shone into Mac's back window. "Should Istart the taxi, angling away from Mac, like he said?" 

"Stand by." 

"No? " 

"Hold." 

For an instant, Mac thought the GC Jet didn't see him. He slammedon the brakes and stayed in line between 

the two craft. When the jet finally stopped, about fifty feet infront of him, he realized it could easily go around him. Whywasn't Sebastian rolling? With the right angle, he could get pastMac and the GC and be in the air in seconds. 

Not wanting to give the GC a chance to cut George off, Mac hitthe accelerator and pulled to within ten feet of the jet. Herealized someone could open the door and have a clear shot athim, but they couldn't do much to his plane if he sabotaged theiraircraft. Not wanting to give them time to think, he racedforward and lodged the front of the car under the nose of thejet, banging into the landing gear. He had raised the plane offthe ground a few inches but couldn't tell if he had done anydamage. 

Mac rolled down his window and leaned his torso all the way out,
firing his Uzi at the tires. He was amazed how resilient they 


were, and he heard bullets bouncing off and hitting the fuselageand the car. Reaching farther and experimenting with angles, hefinally got one of the tires to blow. But where was George? Whyweren't they advancing? Was something wrong with the plane?
Sebastian just sat at the end of the runway with those lights on. 

Mac expected the GC to come bounding out any second, weaponsblazing. Could they not see he was the only person in the car?
What were they afraid of? He was a sitting duck, lodged undertheir jet. 

Mac tried to open the door, found it hopelessly stuck, and triedgetting out the other side. It too was out of shape and notmoving, but he thought he sensed a little 

more give on that side. He lay on the front seat and pushed withhis hands on the driver's side door while pressing against thepassenger door with his feet. It finally broke free and hescrambled out. 

He crouched beneath the jet, Uzi trained on the door. He wouldtake them as they came out, if they dared. Maybe they werewaiting for him to make a break for his own plane or forSebastian to come and pick him. up. But opening the door for himwould slow George too, and all of them would be in danger. 

As he waited, locked in a bewildering standoff, Mac didn't knowwhat to do. Should he try to shoot through the skin of the jetand take them all out? If it was armor plated, which was likely,
he would waste ammunition. Why weren't they coming after him? Andwhy was 

.. George still waiting? 

The GC let shut down. Now what? Nothing. No movement inside orout. 


Frustrated, Mac grabbed his walkie talkie. "Chloe or Hannah," hewhispered desperately, "come in, please." 

"Chloe here, Mac." 

"What's going on. 

" 

"Got me. George is at the controls." "What's he doing?" "Youwanna talk to him? Here." "Kinda busy here, Mac. What's up?" "Youcan see what's up! What're you doing?" "Waiting for clearance."
"You're clear! Go! Go now! Angle to your right! 

These guys are hung up and I've got one of their tires blown.
They've shut down their engines." "waiting for you, partner."
"Don't be silly. I'd run right into their line of fire. Go to theother end of the runway, and I'll meet you there. But if theycome after me, just keep going." "Yeah, I know, and you'll see mein heaven." "Exactly now quit being stupid and go!" "I'm notbeing stupid, Mac. I'm obeying." "You're supposed to obey me, sodo as I say." "Sorry. You've been superseded." "What? " "You'resupposed to put down your weapon and walk this way." "You got GCon that plane!?" "Negative. Come unarmed, and you will be safe."
"Have you lost your mind?" "God is telling you to come." Macshook his head. "Ah, stand by." "Come now." Mac sighed, his eyesdarting back and forth between the jet door and his own plane. Hepushed the transmit button. "Lord, if it is you, command me tocome that way. " "Come." The voice had not been George's.
"Unarmed? 

" 

"Come." 


Mac waited a beat, then unstrapped the Uzi and laid it on theground. He turned off the walkie talkie and 

jammed it into his pocket. He walked past the car and stooddirectly under the cockpit. He felt exposed, vulnerable,
indefensible. If that jet door opened now, he was a dead man. 

He heard nothing above him, saw nothing beside him. Mac steppedout from under the plane and headed directly in front of it. Hekept imagining he heard movement behind him the engines roaringto life, footsteps from the cabin to the door, the door opening,
weapons firing. 

He prayed urgently as he strode along, "Lord, save me!" 

Immediately he felt as if God's hands were upon him, and hebarely felt his feet on the ground. "o you of little faith, whydo you doubt?" 

The voice was clear as crystal, but the walkie talkie was off andGeorge had his engines roaring. Mac broke into a trot, then arun. Every step sounded like a gunshot. Hannah was lowering thedoor when he got there, and he leaped in. 

"Flyin' or backseat drivin' ? " George said, unstrapping as ifready to take the copilot's chair. 

"Here is fine," Mac said. "I don't think I could ride a bikeright now." 

Chang was relieved to hear from Rayford and eager to meet Naomieven if only on line. He was tempted to scold her for scaringhim, and so decided to wait until the next day to try to makecontact. Meanwhile, he 


checked in on Mac and his team, fearing the worst despite all thepraying that had been going on. 

Mac answered his phone, sounding exhausted. 

"I need to meet this Michael someday," Chang said, after hearingthe story. "You guys get all the fun." 

"I could use a little less fun, frankly," Mac said. "And youmight as well know, Sebastian here doesn't call him Michaelanymore. Calls him Roger." 

"Roger ? " 

"Says he told him he assumed he was Michael, and the guy said,
'Roger."' 

"So Stefanich and those guys are just sitting on the runway witha wounded plane?" 

"Yeah, and they're gonna need some repair work before they cantake off again." 

"Why didn't they shoot you?" 

"I thought you could find out. What was going on in that cockpitwhen I strolled out from underneath, unarmed? " 

"I'll let you know." 

Within half an hour the rest of the Tribulation Force had heard 
the good news out of Greece, and Chang had paved the way forGeorge to land south of Rome for the refuel. They were on theirown for getting back to the safe house without going throughKankakee, Illinois, and without arousing more suspicion. Thatshould be the easiest part of their ordeal. 

When Chang was finally able to hack back into the Ptolemais GCsystem and find transmissions between the plane and the Kozani 


tower, he could 


only shake his head. The pilot had reported seeing the plane atthe end of the runway, putting down, and seeing a carapproaching. But at the same tine Chang figured Michael hadinstructed George to turn on his landing lights, the pilotreported a light so blinding that "we have lost visual contactwith the plane and the auto. " 

A few minutes later the pilot reported being struck by what, hedid not know. His jet was being jostled and the front end lifted,
but no one aboard could take his hands from his eyes because ofthe intense light. They heard shooting and feared for theirlives, heard one of their tires blow, and shut down the engines.
In essence they sat in fear, unable to peek out of the cockpitfor the next several minutes, until they heard the plane thunderpast them and rise. 

Chang listened as they finally ventured out, shoulder radios lefton, weapons ordered at the ready, only to find their damagedplane, wounded landing gear, flat tire, beat up squad car, and anUzi on the runway. Only now they were being rescued by a fleet ofGC in cars, who reported that others had picked up the injuredofficers at the side of the road on the way. They were beingtreated for severe burns they claimed were caused by a ray gun. 

It was still a couple of hours before Ming was to leave San Diegofor the Far East. Chang was finally finished with his night'swork. He dropped into bed, spent. How strange, he thought, tofeel so pivotal and indispensable and then discover that theentire success of an operation 


was out of his hands. In fact, he had been out of commission whenGod worked his miracles. 

There were victims to grieve, martyrs to praise, and much workahead. Chang didn't know how long he could evade detection. Hewas willing to hang in and work in the office during the day,
doing his real work after hours, for as long as God chose toprotect him. 

Rayford stirred at dawn's first light, amazed he had been able tosleep at all. Petra was already humming, families gathering themorning's manna and filling any container they could find withthe pure springwater God provided. 

Thousands were working on the caves, thousands of others erectingmore tents. On everyone's lips were stories of the miracle fromthe day before and the promise of live teaching from Dr. TsionBen Judah himself later in the day. 

From the elders and organizers came word that building materialswere on their way and that the people should pray for the safetyof pilots and truckers who would begin delivering materials.
Volunteers were sought with expertise in various crafts. Rayfordknew the current spirit could not last forever. The memory of themiracle would fade, inevitably, though he could not imagine it.
And people, regardless of their shared faith, would find livingelbow to elbow taxing after a while. But for now he would enjoythis. 

Rayford would have to get back to the Tribulation 

Force at some point, but Carpathia's people would target anyonecoming or going from Petra. Perhaps if the supplies were able toget in, that would be a clue it was prudent to try to get out. 


Naomi and her team of computer gurus already reported that TheTruth cyberzine had been transmitted from Buck Williams,
recounting stories from around the world. The whole episode ofwhat had gone on in Greece the day before was played out indetail, as was the truth about what had happened at Petra. 

A team of computer experts from Israel said they had thetechnology to project The Truth onto a giant screen, if one couldbe fashioned. And among the various supplies already in the campwas enough white canvas to be stretched several stories high.
Thousands gathered to read the stories. 

Rayford loved the idea that it was not just believers, not justthe so called Judah Ites, who read The Truth. Many undecideds andeven some who had taken the mark of Antichrist risked their lives 
by downloading Buck's magazine from the Tribulation Force site.
All over the world the believers' underground and Co op personneltranslated it and printed it and distributed it. Carpathia couldget away with nothing. 

Sadly, Rayford knew, there were hundreds, if not thousands, ofuncommitted people right there in Petra. Tsion had alreadypromised to address them too, going so far as to say many of themwould still be deceived and eventually spirited away by liars andcharlatans. It 

WAS harm to understand or believ.e How could someone 

have survived what Rayford had lived through and even questionthe one true God of the universe? It was beyond him. 

Late in the morning, nearly twenty four hours since the bombing,
the people began to gather. Word spread that Dr. Ben Judah wouldbegin his teaching on the mercy of God. Throughout the crowd,
however, stories also spread from around the world that 


persecution had intensified against believers and particularlyagainst Jews. 

Chang had tapped into the feeds to Akbar's and Fortunato's andCarpathia's offices and had set on automatic the utility thatsent to Buck Williams's computer the reports from the subpotentates around the world. As the sun rose in variouscountries, news of the bloodshed and mayhem of the night beforeand the relentless daytime raids was transmitted not just to NewBabylon, but also from Chang to Buck and from Buck to the worldthrough The Truth. 

As the crowds gathered to hear Dr. Ben Judah, they were rivetedto the giant screen, set on a wall away from the sun for bestviewing. Buck had transmitted the visuals Chang had sent him fromthe United South American States, and the masses booed and hissedas the shy man accepted the mark of loyalty. They cheered, thenwept, then sang and praised God for the testimony of the bravemartyrs who faced the blade with such peace and courage. 

The remnant at Petra seemed outraged en masse at the reports fromGreece about a midnight raid that had 

destroyed what was left of the small contingent of 

underground believers. Buck had added audio to that 

video report, reminding his readers and listeners and 

watchers that it had fallen to Greek believers to be 

among the first to give their lives rather than accept 

the mark of the beast.

 Now, it seemed, on every continent the Morale Moni 


tors and the Peacekeepers had been revitalized, financed, 
equipped, and motivated to more than turn up the heat. 
From every corner of the globe came reports of the end 
of the patience of the Global Community for dissenters 
or even the undecided. It was either accept the mark now 
or face the consequences immediately. Even many who 
had alreadY taken the mark of Carpathia were punished 
for not bowing to worship his image three times a day.

 Leon Fortunato came on in full regalia and intro 
duced by every title and pedigree he had ever enjoyed 
to warn that "those of Jewish descent who are as stub 
born as the Judah ites and insist on worshiping a god 
other than our father and risen lord, Nicolae Carpathia, 
shall find themselves receiving their just reward. Yea, 
death is too good for them. Oh, they shall surely die, 
but it is hereby decreed that no Jew should be allowed the mercY

of a quick end by the blade. Graphic and reproachful as that is,
it is virtually painless. No, these shall suffer day and night intheir dens of iniquity, and 

by the time they expire due to natural causes brought about bYtheir own reljection of Carp athianism they will be praying,
crying out, for a death so expedient as the loyalty enforcementfacilitator." 


Those in Petra appeared to Rayford shocked by the lengths NewBabylon would go to, to take revenge on its enemies and humiliateJews. But their greatest wrath and derision were saved for thereport from GCNN about what had happened the day before, rightthere in the red rock city. 

An anchorman intoned that the attack on Petra two incendiarybombs and a land based launch missile had missed their target andthat the enemy encamped there had swiftly struck back and downedthe two fighter bombers, killing the pilots. The laughter beganwith that report and turned to waving fists and hisses and boosas Carpathia came on to mourn the deaths of the martyred airmen. 

"While there is no denying that it was pilot error, still theGlobal Community, I am sure, joins me in extending its deepestsympathy to the surviving families. We decided not to risk anymore personnel in trying to destroy this stronghold of the enemy,
but we will starve them out by cutting off supply lines. Withindays, this will be the largest Jewish concentration camp inhistory, and their foolish stubbornness will have caught up withthem. 

"Fellow citizens of the new world order, my compatriots in theGlobal Community, we have these people and their leaders to thankfor the tragedy that besets our seas and oceans. I have beenrepeatedly urged by my closest advisers to negotiate with theseinternational terrorists, these purveyors of black magic who haveused their wicked spells to cause such devastation. 

"I am sure you agree with me that there is no future in suchdiplomacy. I have nothing to offer in exchange for the millionsof human lives lost, not to mention the beauty and the richnessof the plant and animal life. 

"You may rest assured that my top people are at work to devise a 


remedy to this tragedy, but it will not include deals,
concessions, or any acknowledgment that these people had theright to foist on the world such an unspeakable act." 

In the middle of that newscast, from Chang through Buck, came areproduction of the conversation between Suhail Akbar and the twopilots from the Petra bombing raid. Though the GCNN tried tospeak over it and stream words in front of it saying it wasfalse, a hoax, anyone listening heard the pilots defendingthemselves to Akbar, and his order for their executions. 

Rayford could not fathom how Carpathia could have a supporterleft in the world, and yet it was clear that Scripture foretoldhe would. At Petra the crowd grew restless and murmured amongthemselves about both the lies and the truth they had just beenexposed to. But the rumor was that Micah, the one who had ledthem out of Israel to this safe place, was about to emerge andintroduce Dr. Ben Judah. 

Spontaneously, the entire crowd fell silent. 

Chapter 

"I am sure you agree with me that there is no future in suchdiplomacy. I have nothing to offer in exchange for the millionsof human lives lost, not to mention the beauty and the richnessof the plant and animal life. 

"You may rest assured that my top people are at work to devise aremedy to this tragedy, but it will not include deals,
concessions, or any acknowledgment that these people had theright to foist on the world such an unspeakable act." 

In the middle of that newscast, from Chang through Buck, came a 


reproduction of the conversation between Suhail Akbar and the twopilots from the Petra bombing raid. Though the GCNN tried tospeak over it and stream words in front of it saying it wasfalse, a hoax, anyone listening heard the pilots defendingthemselves to Akbar, and his order for their executions. 

Rayford could not fathom how Carpathia could have a supporterleft in the world, and yet it was clear that Scripture foretoldhe would. At Petra the crowd grew restless and murmured amongthemselves about both the lies and the truth they had just beenexposed to. But the rumor was that Micah, the one who had ledthem out of Israel to this safe place, was about to emerge andintroduce Dr. Ben Judah. 

Spontaneously, the entire crowd fell silent. 

primarily, and whether you pray, raise your hands, or just pointto the sky in acknowledgment of him, your adoration will beproperly directed. 

"In the fourteenth chapter of the Gospel of John, our Lord, Jesusthe Messiah, makes a promise we can take to the bank of eternity.
He says, `Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in God,
believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions; if itwere not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place foryou. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come againand receive you to myself; that where I am, there you may bealso.' 

"Notice the urgency. That was Jesus' guarantee that though he wasleaving his disciples, one day he would return. The world had notseen the last of Jesus the Christ, and as many of you know, itstill has not seen the last of him. 

"Think with me now of the five paramount, pivotal events ofhistory. From Eden until this present moment, God has given us inthe Bible an accurate history of the world, much of it written inadvance. It is the only truly accurate history ever written. 


"The first pivotal event was the creation of the world by thedirect act of God. 

"Next comes the worldwide flood. This flood had a catastrophiceffect on the world and still boggles the minds of scientists whofind fish bones at altitudes as high as fifteen thousand feet. 

"The third pivotal event in history was the first coming of Jesusthe Messiah. That event made possible our 

salvation from sin. Jesus lived a perfect life and died as asacrifice for our sin. He died for the sins of the world, for allthose who would call upon him. 

"But that is not the end of the story, as we all know, becausenone of us here called upon him to forgive our sins until afterthe fourth pivotal event in history when he came back. 

"Most of us have since rectified that situation, and it is a goodthing. Both the Old and the New Testaments of the Bible point tohis coming one last time the fifth pivotal event in worldhistory. This glorious appearing will signal the beginning of themillennial kingdom, true utopia. 

"Imagine paradise on earth with Messiah in control. Many believethat during his thousand year reign, which will begin less thanthree and a half years from now, the population will grow togreater than the number of all the people who have already livedand died up to now. How can that be? Because ours will be a worldwithout war. Imagine a globe in which government will not beresponsible for killing the nearly million. it has slain to this 
day. 

"Serving God has never been the choice of mankind. But whenMessiah returns, he will establish his kingdom and people willlive at peace. We will live in righteousness. We will haveplenty. It is difficult to describe what an incredible time it 


will be. Everyone will have enough. 

"God wants this kind of a world, and he wants it for us for onereason: He is gracious. In the Bible, Joel : says he is merciful,
slow to anger, and abundant in 

loving kindness. He relents from doing harm. Jonah, years afterJoel was born, described God in the same words. And Moses,
fifteen hundred years before these men lived, said the Lord ismerciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in goodnessand truth. 

"Those are the prophets' views of God. Where do you get your viewof God? What better picture of him could we have gotten than whatwe lived through yesterday? When you kneel to pray, remember thatevent and what the prophets have said. Yes, we have an august Godthe only supreme, omnipotent potentate. But if the Bible teachesone thing about God, it is that he is for us. He is not againstus. He wants to bless our lives, and the key to the door ofblessing is to give your life to him and ask him to do with it ashe will. How could you not love the God the prophets describe?
How could you not love the God Jesus the Messiah refers to as ourFather who is in heaven? 

t

 "How wonderful it is that we can come as children 

into the presence of God himself, the creator of every 

thing, and call him our Father.

 "We find ourselves enduring the worst period in 

human history. Sixteen of the prophesied judgments of 

God have already rained down upon the earth, each 


worse than the last, with five yet to go. The Antichrist 

has been revealed, as has the False Prophet. That is why r 

Messiah referred to this period as the Tribulation, and 

the second half of it in which we now find ourselves 

as the Great Tribulation.

 "How can I say this judging, avenging God is loving 

and merciful? Remember that during this period he is working inpeople to get them to make a decision. Why? The millennium iscoming. When Jesus makes his final glorious appearing, he willcome in power and great glory. He will set up his kingdomexclusively for those who have made the right decision. Thatdecision? To call on the name of the Lord. 

"Does that sound exclusivistic? Understand this: The Bible makes 
clear that the will of God is that all men be saved. Second Peter 
: says, `The Lord is not slack concerning his promise . . . butis long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perishbut that all should come to repentance.' 

"God promised in Joel that he would `show wonders in the heavens 
and in the earth: blood and fire and pillars of smoke. The sunshall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, beforethe coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. And it shallcome to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall besaved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be 
deliverance, as the Lord has said, among the remnant whom theLord calls.' 

"Dear people, you are that remnant! Do you see what God issaying? He is still calling men to faith in Christ. He has raisedup , evangelists, from the twelve tribes, to plead with men andwomen all over the world to decide for Christ. Who but a loving, 


gracious, merciful, long suffering God could plan in advance thatduring this time of chaos he would send so many out in power topreach his message? 

"Remember the two supernatural witnesses who preached the Word ofGod in Jerusalem and on global television? After three and a halfyears they were murdered in full view of the whole world. Andthen after their bodies lay in the streets for three days, Godcalled them to heaven. Why? Because as a loving and merciful Godhe wanted to manifest his power and glory so men and women couldsee and make the right decision about him. 

"Here we have the supernatural God of heaven fulfilling hispromises of ages past, preserving the children of Israel whileAntichrist tries to persecute you. 

"Whom will you serve? Will you obey the ruler of this world, orwill you call on the name of the Lord? 

"God has done all these great and mighty things because he wantsto save mankind. Many will still rebel, even here, even after allthey have seen and experienced. Do not let it be you, my friend.
Our God is merciful. Our God is gracious. He is long sufferingand wants all to be saved. 

"If you agree that God is using the period we now live in to getpeople ready for the millennial kingdom and for eternity, whatwill you do with your life? Turn it over to Messiah. WorshipJesus, the Christ. Receive him as the one and only Lamb of Godthat takes away the sins of the world. Receive him into your lifeand then live in obedience to him. He wants you. And a God whowill go to such lengths to save to the uttermost anyone who willcall on him is one worth trusting. Will you trust a God likethat? Can you love a God like that? 

"Messiah was born in human flesh. He came again. And he is coming 


one more time. I want you to be ready. We were left behind at theRapture. Let us be ready for the Glorious Appearing. The HolySpirit of God is moving all over the world. Jesus is building hischurch during this darkest period in history because he isgracious, loving, long suffering, and merciful." 

All around Rayford, people had bowed their heads, and many beganpraying. They prayed for friends and loved ones in Petra and inother places in the world. They had to have heard, as Rayforddid, the emotion in Tsion's voice as he pleaded once again forall to make the decision to follow Christ. 

"The time is short," Tsion cried out, "and salvation is apersonal decision. Admit to God that you are a sinner.
Acknowledge that you cannot save yourself. Throw yourself on themercy of God and receive the gift of his Son, who died on thecross for your sin. Receive him and thank him for the gift ofyour salvation." 

"Major, major problem," Aurelio Figueroa said, steepling hisfingers as he leaned back in his chair. Chang sat across the deskfrom him, praying silently. "It's not just the bogus entries inthe palace database, the phony personnel and checks and balancesthat have allowed the enemies of the GC to fool local leaders. 
Now we clearly have bugs in offices as high as the director ofSecurity and Intelligence. Do you know that earlier today, while 

the potentate was trying to properly mourn our dead pilots,
someone superseded the feed with a bogus conversation DirectorAkbar was supposed to have had with the pilots? " 

"Bet you're glad it was bogus." 

"I don't follow, Wong." 

"If it was real, it could have been catastrophic. We all heardit, sir. Akbar lecturing the pilots, their disagreeing, and hishaving them executed." 


The tall, bony Mexican studied Chang. "Where would someone havegotten that kind of a recording?" 

"You're asking me?" 

"I don't see anyone else in the room." 

"I'm sorry. I should have said, `Why are you asking me" 

This was zero hour. If Figueroa accused him, Chang might have tobe out of New Babylon within hours to avoid execution. 

"I'm asking everyone, of course. Don't take it personally. Youwouldn't believe what's been planted on the main database." 

"Tell me." 

Figueroa stood. "I'm not telling everyone this, but Akbar himselfbegan to suspect something shaky in Chicago. You know the placewas hit more than once during the war. The city was evacuated anddeclared off limits, and we have virtually ignored it for months.
Years." 

Chang nodded. 

"We didn't fly reconnaissance planes over it, didn't takepictures, didn't check heat sensors, anything." 

"Because? " 

"Because someone planted on the computer that the place had beennuked and would be radioactive for years. Akbar didn't rememberit that way. He thought the city had been virtually destroyed,
but not by nukes. Every time he had somebody check, they wentstraight to the database, checked the current levels, and said,
`Yup, it's radioactive all right.' Not until recently did anybodycheck the archives to find out if the readings could be right. Of 


course, they can't. The place is clean." 

"Wow. " 

"Wow is right. You know as well as I do that there is only onereason someone would plant such information: to have the city tothemselves. We've been able to bypass the phony readings,
finally, and have tried to get a bead on what's happening there.
Precious little, of course, because everyone else was getting thesame info we were. But there has been activity. Water and powerusage. Planes, choppers, coming and going. Jets from an airstripon the lake. That would be Lake Michigan. " 

"Really? " 

"Yes. There is evidence of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
Very little, of course, but there could be up to three dozenpeople in the city." 

"Hardly enough to worry about," Chang said. 

"Oh, on the contrary," Figueroa said. "These people are going towish they'd never been born." 

Chang was dying to ask but desperate to appear remote. He waited. 

"You'd think we'd just send a team of Peacekeepers sweeping inthere and round them up, wouldn't you?" 

Chang shrugged. "Something like that, sure." 

"Akbar has a better idea. He says if somebody wants it to appearradioactive, let's nuke it." 

"You can't be serious." 

"Totally." 


"Waste technology like that at a time like this?" 
"It's brilliant, Chang.)) 
"It's a solution, I'll say that. But has he thought of the


freshwater that flows through there?" 


"We're harvesting Lake Michigan from northern Wisconsin. We don't
have to worry about the Chicago River. " 
"People living downstream from it do." 
"Well, anyway, word is the big boss loves the idea." 
"Really. " 
"You kidding? Carpathia uh, the potentate loves stuff like this." 
"We've got an atomic bomb we can spare?" 
"Come on, Wong! Whoever these people are, they're up to no good.


If they were loyal citizens, wouldn't they say, "Hey, we didn'tknow this place was off limits and we mistakenly settled here,
and you know what, we're okay'? " 

Chang shrugged, wanting to know how much time he had to warn the

Trib Force but not daring to ask. "I guess." 
"You guess? There's no record of a loyalty mark application site
there, of course. And nobody 


who's registered with us would live there without telling us." 
"You're right." 
"'Course I'm right. Hey, Chang, you don't look so good." 
Chang had been surreptitiously holding his breath and not 



blinking. His face had reddened and his eyes watered. "Justtired," he said, exhaling finally. "And I think I'm coming downwith something." 

"You all right?" 
Chang coughed, then pretended he couldn't stop. He held up a hand
as if to apologize and say he was okay. "Didn't sleep that well


last night," he managed. "I'll be fine. I'll go to bed early
tonight." 
"You need a nap?" 
"Nah. Too much to do." 
"we're okay. Take a break." 
"I couldn't." 
"why not?" 
"want to do my share, pull my weight, all that." He disintegrated


into a coughing spell again. 
"Just knock off early. You've got sick time left, don't you?" 
"Just used some during the, you know, plague thing." 
"Boils? Yeah, didn't we all? Take the rest of the day off, and if


you're not in tomorrow, I'll understand." 


"No, now really, Mr. Figueroa, I'll be fine. See? I feel better
already." 
"what is it with you, Wong? I mean, I'm all for gungho, but " 


"Just don't like being a wimp." 



"You're anything but that." 

"Thanks," Chang said, covering his mouth and coughing longer thanhe had before. 

"Stop by Medical and get something." 

Chang waved Figueroa off. "I'm going back to my desk," hewheezed. 

"No, you're not. Now that's a directive." 

"You're making me leave work early?" 

"Come on! You think I'm thinking only of you? Get over yourself.
I don't want a department full of coughers, and I think you'vecontaminated my office enough too. Get going." 

"I really " 

"Chang! Go!" 

It was the crack of dawn in Colorado, and Steve Plank, akaPinkerton Stephens, was asleep in his quarters. He had spentuntil midnight firing off warnings to his friends in theTribulation Force that something big was coming for Chicago andthat if they knew what was good for them, they would escape, andfast. He had reached Rayf ord Steele by phone in Petra and urgedhim to stay there and not let Abdullah Smith or anyone else goback to Chicago either. 

When the insistent banging on his door woke him, his firstthought was that in his haste he had not used a secure phone orthat his computer had been bugged. 

If they caught him, they caught him. Warning the Trib Force was 


the most productive thing he'd done since becoming a believer orat least since helping them get Hattie Durham out of his custodyand to a place where she became a believer. 

Plank tried to call out to see who it was and what they wanted,
but his facial appliance was next to the bed, and without it, hecould not make himself heard. The best he could do was grunt, andhe felt for the plastic pieces in the dark. 

"Mr. Stephens, sir, no need to open the door." It was easilyMedvedev, Steve's second in command. "I just wanted to give youfair warning. New Babylon is cracking down on the handful ofemployees around the world who have not yet received the loyaltymark. You're expected to have yours applied by noon mountain timeat Carpathia Resurrection Field. Just acknowledge that you gotthat." 

Steve slung himself into his motorized wheelchair and rolled tothe door, then tapped twice on it. 

"Thank you, sir. This puts me in an awkward spot, but I've beenordered to accompany you and see to it." 

Steve rolled back to the bed stand and quickly snapped on hisappliances. "Hold on a second, easily! " He opened the door andwaved him in. 

"I'm sorry, sir," the Russian said. "What could I do or say?" 

"Tell them I already have it." 

"There's no record of it." 

"You know it cannot be applied to synthetic. You 

want to see it?" Plank began to unsnap the forehead piece. 

"No! Please! Now, sir, I'm sorry, but I tried looking once, and 


that was more than enough. Forgive me." 


"well, I'm going to see if the administrator of the marks wants a
look," Steve said. 
"Come, sir, there'd be a record, wouldn't there?" 
"I should be exempted. Can you imagine the pain of having it


applied to the membrane " 
"Please! I was told to inform you and to " 
"See to it, yeah, I know." 
"Sir? Why don't you just have it applied to your hand? " 
"My hand? My hand, you say? You forget my hand was also donated


to the cause?" 


Steve held up the stub, and Vasily recoiled. "I am so stupid," he
said. "Can you forget I " 
Steve waved him off. "Don't worry about it." 
"When would you like to leave, sir? They open at eight and we're


about an hour away." 
"I know how far away we are, Vasily." 
"of course." 
"I'll let you know." 
when Medvedev left, Steve bowed his head, weeping. "God, what


should I do? Bluff them? See if I can get a waiver? Is this it?
Is it over? Can I be of no more service to the believers around 
the world?" 

Steve spent the morning communicating with Chang in New Babylon,
where it was late afternoon. They worked frantically to come up 


with suggestions as to where the 

Chicago based Trib Force might go. No one anywhere could takethem all. The Strong Building had been perfect, if only briefly. 

Neither Chang nor Steve had yet been able to ascertain when thebombing of Chicago might commence, but clearly speed was of theessence. Only after they had informed everyone and made theirrecommendations did Steve tell Chang what was happening with him. 

"I knew they were cracking down," Chang said, "but I had no ideahow soon. Let me put in the database that you've had the markapplied. I can copy you on the documentation. " 

"Can't let you do that, brother." 

"Why? I just did it for a Co op flier the other day. He didn'teven know till it was done." 

"with the way they're watching at the palace right now? I gofront no documentation one day to totally clear the next?" 

"It doesn't have to be at Resurrection. I could say it came fromanywhere." 

Steve paused. It was intriguing, enticing even. But it didn'tresonate. "Maybe if you'd thought of it before if it had justshowed up, like an accident, like you did with the other guy. Butthis would be like my choosing the mark. I couldn't do that." 

"Then you're getting out of there, right? Where will you go andhow will you get there? Should I send someone for you?
appropriate a ride?" 

"It's not going to work, Chang. That'll make you vulnerable. Andyou know they've got to be watching me." 


"No one's on to me yet," Chang said. "I don't think they're evensuspicious." 

"You need to keep it that way." 

"Can you get to Petra? There's a Co op flight out of Montanatoday. I could have him " 

"I'll let you know, Chang. I appreciate it, but it may be time totake my stand." 

"What are you saying?" 

"You know." 

"Oh, Steve, at least make them catch you. We need you, man." 

"On the lam? What good would I be?" 

"We need everybody we can get." 

Buck debated waking the Greek contingent and decided against it,
though it meant more work for everyone else. Chloe, Mac, Hannah,
and Sebastian had staggered in during the wee hours. 

Buck could tell Kenny was fascinated by all the activity. Peoplescurried everywhere, deciding what they absolutely had to have,
packing small boxes, ignoring printouts, notes anything that wasin a computer anyway. The person allowed to take more than anyoneelse was Zeke. There were things he simply could not do without:
his files, his wardrobes, the tools of his trade. 

Leah spent most of her time on a secure phone to Coop people allover the country. She told Buck, "Everyone is resigned to thefact that they may have to take a few people in, and theyhonestly seem honored, but no one is 


excited about it. They are stretched to the limit for space andnecessities as it is." 

"We have no choice, Leah. It's time to call in the chips. I hateto say it, but a lot of these people owe us nothing less. We haverun the Co op from here and provided them with stuff that keepsthem alive." 

Albie seemed glum. And why not? Buck wondered. The only placeAlbie could think of to go and wanted to go was back to A Basrah.
"But I don't want to take a plane when so many of you have placesto go." 

"Do what you have to, Albie," Buck said. "See if Leah can get youa ride with someone delivering supplies to Petra. You know we'llbe calling on you frequently." 

"You'd better," Albie said. 

Enoch's people were under the building, checking vehicles, seeinghow many were in running condition. He had traded the privilegeof choosing cars and SUVs as a concession against trying to getall thirty of the others from The Place onto planes. Leah hadalready lined up for them several underground centers withindriving distance, Enoch himself in Palos Hills, Illinois. 

"You know the danger of a caravan pulling out of here in broaddaylight," Buck said. 

"I sure do. But we also know the danger of being here when the GChits." 

Steve Plank had communicated to Vasily that he wanted to leavethe GC compound at A.M. He spent much of the rest of the morningbehind closed doors, agonizing in 

prayer. Finally he called Buck. What a strange turn, he thought.
Seeking solace and counsel from a young man who had once been his 


best and most challenging employee. The glory days of Global


Weekly were long gone. 
Steve's news was met with silence. Then a subdued Buck: "Steve,
don't do it. Please." 


"You think I want to? C'mon, man! Don't get personal with me now,


Buck. I just wanted to say good bye." 
"well, I don't want to, all right? I've said enough good byes for
one lifetime. Anyway, we need you. This is no time to be giving
up." 


"Don't insult me." 
"I'll do what I have to, to keep you from this, Steve." 
"I had hoped for more from you." 
"I could say the same," Buck said. 
"You think I'm taking the easy way out? Don't do this to me." 
"What're you saying, Steve? That I'm supposed to just support


you, wish you the best, say I'll see you on the flip side?" 
"That would help. Tell me you trust my judgment." 
"When I think you've lost your mind?" 
Steve sighed. "Buck, I've got no one else to call. If I tell you


that you can't talk me out of it and that's why I'm calling, will
you just tell me you're with me?" 


"Of course I'm with you, but " 
"I'm not a coward, Buck. You've seen me. You know I should have
died. I was buried underground for almost a week. I live in pain
every hour of every day, but I've 



misled, I've conspired, I've finagled, I've double crossed theenemy every way I know how. Well, there's something I won't do. Iwon't run like a child and I won't deny Christ. " 

"I know you won't." 

"well, that's something. That wasn't so hard, was it?" 

"Don't tell me I have to like this, Steve." 

"will you pray for me?" 

"Of course, but I'd pray you come to your senses." 

"I'm going through with this, Buck. And I won't pretend I'm notscared. The GC considers this an oversight, a timing thing,
something to do with my limitations. But when they make itofficial, make me make my decision and take my stand, I don'twant to fail God." 

"You won't. He promises grace beyond measure and a peace thatpasses understanding." 

"I gotta tell ya, Buck, I'm not feeling any of that yet." 

"God," Buck began, but Steve could tell he had to compose himselfbefore he could continue, "please be with your child. Give himyour grace, your peace. I confess I don't want him to do this. Ihate it. I'm tired of losing people I love. But if this is whatyou're calling him to do, give him courage, give him words, givehim power over the enemy. I pray that people who see this will beso moved that they will make the same choice." 


Buck was so shaken that his comrades seemed to gather round himspontaneously. When they learned what was 

going on, they knelt and prayed for Steve. Buck called Chang. 

"He'll be going to the center at Resurrection south of the
Springs," Buck said. "Any chance they monitor that visually? " 
"They do." 
"Could that be transmitted here?" 
"I can do it." 
"I don't know why I want to see it, but I'll feel like I'm there


with him." 
Steve was aware of Vasily's double take when Steve rolled up in


the parking lot in casual clothes. In fact, less than casual. He
wore slip on shoes, khaki pants, and a white undershirt. 
"You're wondering about protocol," Steve said as Vasily lifted


him into the car. 
Vasily nodded. "I've learned not to question you, Chief." 
"Are you armed, my friend?" 
"Of course." 
"I'm not." 
"I can see that." 
Steve reached out a hand to Vasily, who looked at it. "Shake," he


said. "Sorry the hand isn't what it used to be." Vasily touchedit gingerly. "The name's Steve Plank." 


"Excuse me?" 


"You heard me." 
"Steve Plank? " 
"So, you were listening, as usual. You know Global Weekly?" 
Vasily appeared to have trouble concentrating. "What? The


magazine? Sure. We get it from New Babylon." 


"You remember when it was independent, before the disappearances
? " 
"Of course." 
"I was on the masthead." 
"The ? " 
"Masthead. That list of the staff. I was the boss the editorial 


boss, anyway." And Steve told Vasily his story. They were fifteenminutes from their destination when he finished. 

Medvedev shook his head. "What am I supposed to do with that?" 
"Well, you don't need to arrest me. You already have me incustody, and you're following orders. You're taking me to thecenter." 

"And you will take the mark, continue to live as a secret enemyof the Global Community, and I am to look the other way becausewe have become friends?" 

"Have we, Vasily?" 
"I thought we had, but of course you have not trusted me with the 



truth until now." 
"If we are friends, you could do me a favor." 
"Let you go? Let you make a run for it? Where would you go?" 
"No. I was thinking you might rather shoot me." 


"You're joking." 


"I'm not. It would look good on your record. Say what you want.
You found me out, worried I would escape, whatever." 
"I could not." 
"Well, I couldn't either. Do myself in, I mean. Not that I didn't


give it some thought." 


"What are you asking me to do, short of shooting you? I am
supposed to watch you die?" 
"You are to `see to it,' aren't you? Isn't that your assignment?" 
Vasily sighed shakily and nodded. "You are not really going to go


through with this, are you?" 


Steve nodded. "I am. Running would only put off the inevitable.
And you have to admit, I'm fairly recognizable." 
"That is not humorous to me." 
"Nor to me. Vasily, I regret only that when you came to me it was


already too late for you. You had taken the mark, and proudly." 
"I'm not so proud of it anymore." 
"That is the tragedy of where we find ourselves." 



"I know." 

"You do?" 

"You think I do not sneak a look occasionally at the Ben JudahWeb site? I know my decision is irreversible." 

"You wish it wasn't?" 

"I don't know. I am not blind, not deaf. I can see what'shappening. If I had to say right now, I would say I envy you." 

Chapter 

IT WAS time to wake Chloe, at least. And once she was up, theothers soon followed. 

Chang had called. The Trib Force needed to be packed and preparedto relocate at a moment's notice. 

Chloe worked quickly, though bleary eyed, with Kenny wrappedaround her neck most of the time. George and Mac collected largequantities of canned and boxed foods, then started loading cars.
Hannah, who helped Leah get the Co op stuff in order, looked likeshe could use several more hours of sleep. 

George told Buck he had arranged for someone to come and get himin Chicago but agreed he should reroute them, possibly throughLong Grove, and meet them there. "We've got room for you andChloe and the baby in San Diego, and I'd love to be your pilot." 

Buck had to think about that one. He could think of 

worse scenarios. Leah had tentatively arranged for him and hisfamily to move in with Lionel Whalum and his wife. Buck didn'tknow the man but he wouldn't likely have personally known anyone 


they might stay with. Whalum had agreed to the setup, telling
Leah he had a large suburban home but that he was planning to be
gone frequently with runs to and from Petra. 


"Leah," Buck said, "maybe you and Hannah ought to move in with
the Whalums and let us take this opportunity George is offering.
That way, you'd have a pilot, and so would we." 


"Why don't you just take over and do this job, Buck, if you're


going to make all my work a waste of time anyway. " 
"Chloe's up now anyway, Leah. Why don't you just get yourself
ready to go." 


She looked stricken and hurried away. Buck intercepted her.
"Listen, let's forgive each other under the circumstances. Think
about this: Whalum is transporting stuff to Petra all the time." 


"I know, Buck. Chloe and I have been helping coordinate that. " 
"Are you thinking?" 
"Are you insulting?" she said. 
"You're not thinking." 
"What?! " 
"Catch a ride over there with him sometime, Leah. Anybody in


Petra you want to see?" 
That stopped her, briefly. "Oh, Buck, you can't be serious. I
don't deny I'm enamored of Tsion. Who isn't? 


But he's not going to have the time for a friend with all he has
going over there." 


"So, what, are you afraid Long Grove is going to be too close to 



Chicago when the bomb hits? It may be." 

"No I " 

"You want to go with George to San Diego? They might need medicalhelp out there. And there are private quarters. Nobody's sharinga house. They're in underground shelters, like Quonset huts." 

"No, that sounds perfect for you and your family. I'll talk toHannah about Long Grove." 

"Did I hear my name?" Hannah said. "I prefer the Southwest." 

"Got a contact?" Leah said. "Need one?" 

Within a few minutes Hannah had agreed to stick with Leah. Zekeand Mac were the only two left without arrangements. "I got to besomewhere where people can get to me to take advantage of myservices," Zeke said. "Someplace safe but central." 

"Workin' on it," Chloe called out. 

"I want to be where I can make runs to Petra," Mac said on one ofhis trips in for more boxes. "Maybe get Rayf ord out." 

"Rayford ought to stay there," Buck said. "Might drive him crazyafter a while, but he's got everything he needs to safely keeptrack of everybody." 

By the time they were set to pull out if and when the word came,
Albie had invited Mac to Al Basrah, and Zeke was set up with anunderground unit in western Wisconsin, a city called Avery, notfar from the Minnesota 

border. Buck called Chang. "We're gonna be noisy parading out ofhere," he said, "but I don't guess we have any choice. " 

"Go in the wee hours," Chang said, "only a few at a time over the 


next few days. I'll be able to tell if anyone's on to you. It's arisk, but you know the odds if you wait." 

The entire group all forty of them, including the thirty-one fromThe Place met in a huge circle. They wrapped their arms aroundeach other and prayed for each other and wept. All of them. EvenGeorge and Mac. And seeing all those tears made Kenny cry, whichmade the others laugh. 

"It seems as if we just got here," Buck said. "And now we don'tknow when we might see each other again. I have a list here ofwhat order we'll go in, and my family and I will be the last onesout." 

The Strong Building had been safe for only so long. And now itwould disgorge a few of them at a time into a hostile world thatbelonged to Antichrist and the False Prophet, the GlobalCommunity, and millions of searching eyes that demanded a sign ofloyalty none of these had. 

"I could lose you," Vasily said. "Misplace you. What can I say?
You escaped." 

Steve sat with him in the parking lot at Resurrection Airport.
"What, I raced away in my chair, and you couldn't keep up? Toolate. Let's go."

 It wasn't easy, and Steve wasn't going to pretend it was. He hadoften wondered, when reading or seeing a movie about a condemnedman, what it must have felt like to make that last long walk. Itwasn't long enough, he felt, especially in a chair. 

As they approached the loyalty mark application site in the northwing of the airport, Steve noticed the line was longer than hehad seen it in ages. The crackdown, the intensifying whatever NewBabylon wanted to call it was working. Hundreds milled around the 


statue of Carpathia, bowing, praying, singing, worshiping. Forthe moment, the guillotine was silent. In fact, Steve didn't knowif it had ever been used in this part of the state. Some had beenmartyred near Denver. Others in Boulder. Maybe he would be thefirst here. Perhaps no one was trained to use the facilitator.
But there it stood, gleaming and menacing, and those in line forthe mark laughed nervously and kept glancing at it. 

Steve was still in the part of the line that snaked its way tothe decision-making point. No one was expected to make the"wrong" choice, of course. The stocky, sixtyish, red-haired womanwith the documents and the files and the keyboard barely lookedup as people identified themselves and chose what they wantedtattooed and where they wanted it. As they were administered themark, they raised their fists or whooped and hollered. Then theymade straight for the image, where they paid homage. 

Steve had lived for his daily encouragement and education fromTsion Ben-Judah. It had been his only form of 

church. There was interaction between him and Rayford and him andChang, and occasionally him and Buck or one of the others. But hewas starved for live contact with other believers. That would be 
quickly remedied. 

Steve debated whether to use his real name, to finally come cleanand tell the GC he had been undercover for a long time. But hisname would easily be linked with Buck Williams from their days atthe Weekly, and how long would it take to progress from there tothe link with Rayford, then Chloe, then the Co op, and who knew?
maybe even Chang? 

He couldn't risk that kind of exposure, especially for people whodidn't know it was coming. When it was finally Steve's turn, thewoman noticed easily in his dress uniform and said brightly,
"We've been expecting you two. This must be Pinkerton Stephens." 

"In the flesh, Ginger," Steve said, studying her badge. 

"How about a nice and a tasteful image of the supreme 


potentate?" she said, looking him up and down, clearly puzzled byhis garb. 

"And where would you put it?" Steve said. 

"Your choice." 

"Well, this won't work," he said, showing his stump. Ginger'ssmile froze, and she searched his eyes. She had not found thatamusing and looked as if she wanted to say so. He had put her inan uncomfortable position, and she clearly didn't like it. "And Iunderstand it doesn't work on plastic." 

"That is true," Ginger said, appearing relieved to move on. 

"Then we can't put it here, can we?" he said, knocking on hisfake forehead. 

Snap, snap, snap. He popped off his combination nose and foreheadappliance, exposing his eyeballs and brain sac. "Guess this wouldbe the only option, Ginger," he said in the nasal voice resultingfrom no covering on the nose. 

"Oh! Oh, my ! Mr. Stephens, I " 

"Who wants to put it there?" Steve said. "Who'll volunteer forthat chore? And when I wanted to display it, would I just pop myface off?" 

She turned away. "I'm sure that will work. It's totally hygienicand should cause no problem." 

"I could take my mouthpiece off too, Ginger, if you want the fulleffect." 

"Please, no." 

"Well, anyway, I'm in the wrong line." 


"Pardon me?" 
"I'm not accepting the mark of loyalty." 
"You're not? Well, that's not really an option." 
"Oh, sure it is, Ginger. I mean, the other is a much shorter line


in fact, I'll be the only one in it. But it's most definitely an
option, isn't it?" 


"You're choosing the, uh, the loyalty enforce " 
"I'm choosing the guillotine, Ginger. I'm choosing death over
pretending that Nicolae Carpathia is divine or ruler over
anything." 


She looked to Vasily. "Is he putting me on?" 
"Sadly, he's not, ma'am." 
Ginger studied Steve, then reached for her walkie 


talkie. "Ferdinand, we need someone to run the facilitator." 
"The what?" 
"You know!" she whispered. "The facilitator. " 
"The blade? You serious?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Be right there." A tall, balding man with red cheeks hurried


over. "You're not taking the mark?" he said. 
"Yes," Steve said, "but I thought I would try the blade first.
Please, can we just get on with this? Do I have to go through the 



whole ordeal again?" 
"This is no joking matter." 
"It's no redundant matter either, so could you just do what you


have to do and get me processed?" 


"There is no processing. You just sign, stipulating that you made
this choice of your own free will, and we, ah, you " 
"Die " 
"Yes " 


"Do I get some last words? " 
"Anything you want." 
Cheeks found the proper form, Steve signed "Pinkerton Stephens,"


and the man said, "You realize this is your last chance to change


your mind." 
"About Carpathia being Antichrist, evil personified? About Leon
Fortunato being the False Prophet? Yes, I know. No changing my
mind. " 


"Dyed in the wool, aren't we? " 
"Let's just say I've thought it through." 
"Clearly." 


Steve glanced at Vasily, who had paled and held a hand over hismouth. Others in the line murmured and pointed, and now all eyeswere on the strange looking wounded man in the undershirt. 


Ferdinand slipped between a couple of chairs and went to studythe guillotine. "They say it can be run by one person," he said.
He looked up. "Over here, Mr. Stephens." 

Steve rolled to a line four feet in front of the contraption. Hisbelly began to tighten and his breath came in short puffs. "God,
be with me," he said silently. "Give me the grace. Give me thecourage." 

The grace came. The courage he wasn't so sure about. He wished hewere at a facility with more experience. Ferdinand had raised theblade to its full height, but as he worked with the elements atthe business end of the shaft, he looked tentative and keptpeeking up and pulling his fingers back. 

"I think if that safety lever is set, you're okay," Steve said. 

"Oh, sure enough. Thank you." 

"Don't mention it. You can owe me." 

It took Ferdinand a second, but that elicited a wry look. He setthe restraining bar in place, none too easily, then found therelease cord and surveyed the whole scene once more. 

Kenny was asleep. Buck sat hunched before the TV, to which he hadhooked his phone. Chang had devised 

some digital marvel to transmit the images from Colorado. A TVcamera in a corner showed the entire area, and Chloe pointed.
"That's him, Buck. He's right there." 

Buck's chest felt heavy and he was short of breath. Steve was theonly one before the guillotine, and a man seemed to be fiddlingwith it. 

"Do you have a basket of some sort?" Steve said. 


"Excuse me?" Ferdinand said. 
"A container? Unless you wanted to just chase after my " 
"Yes! Thank you. One moment." 
Steve wanted to say, "Happy to be of service." 
Ferdinand found a corrugated box that for some reason had been


lined with tinfoil. Steve didn't even want to think about why.
"Now," the man said, looking up, "if I can get you to come here." 
Steve rolled close. 


"Can you get down, or 
"I can get myself in there," Steve said, "though it seems a
little lacking in customer service that I should be expected to " 


"I will get assistance." 
"No! I will get situated, once I've had my say." 
"Oh yes, your say. Now is the time. Feel free." 
"Will this be recorded?" 
The man nodded. 
"Well, then . . . " 


Steve spun halfway around to face those in line for the mark ofloyalty. Their eyes would not meet his, but he sensed a hunger ontheir faces for what they clearly felt privileged to soon see. 

"I don't expect you to believe me or to agree or to change yourminds," he began. "But I want to go on record for my own sakeanyway. I have chosen the guillotine today so that I can be with 


God. I am a believer in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the makerof heaven and earth. I renounce Nicolae Carpathia, the evil one,
Satan incarnate. When you take his mark today, you once and forall forfeit your chance for eternal life in heaven. You will bebound for hell, and even if you want to change your mind, youwill not be able to. 

"I wish more of my life had been dedicated to the one who gavehis for me, and into his hands I commit myself, for the glory ofGod." 

Steve spun back around, launched himself out of the chair andinto the guillotine. "Please just do it quickly, Ferdinand," hesaid. 

Buck could not take his eyes from the screen. Chloe sat next tohim, her face buried in her hands. The picture disappeared, butBuck sat there for almost an hour. Finally his phone chirped. Itwas Chang, who also sounded shaken. 

"A confidential note was added to the report from personnel atthe loyalty center," he said. "It tells Suhail 

Akbar, `You will no doubt be hearing from the Global Communitycommand center in Colorado, which will need not only areplacement for the deceased Pinkerton Stephens, but also for hissecond in command, Vasily Medvedev. The latter was just found inhis GC automobile. Medvedev died of a self inflicted gunshot tothe head."' 

Of course, neither death was reported on the Global CommunityNews Network. 

By the time Ming Toy landed in Shanghai after flying all night,
she was more than exhausted. She had made the seeminglyinterminable flight many times before, but she could not sleep 


this time because she was getting to know the pilot. He was anacquaintance, if not a friend, of George Sebastian's. And whileshe had not met George, they had many mutual friends by now. Herpilot, a South Korean named Ree woo, had been a naturalizedAmerican citizen at the time of the Rapture and was stationed atthe same base as Sebastian. 

"Everyone knew George," woo said. "He was the biggest man most ofus had ever seen, let alone the biggest on the base. There wasnothing George couldn't do." 

woo had been a pilot trainer specializing in small, fast,
maneuverable craft with high fuel capacity and thus longdistance capability. "I was unusual for a Korean-American, Mr.
Chow, because I acted more American than Asian, even though I didnot move to America until 

after I was a teenager. I had no religion. I would have made agood Chinese. You grew up atheist, I bet." 

"I did," Ming said, "but Korea, especially South Korea, is abouthalf Christian, half Buddhist, isn't it?" 

"Yes! But I was neither. I wasn't really an atheist either. I wasjust nothing. I didn't think about religion. My feeling was,
there might be a God; I didn't know and didn't care, as long asif there was one, he left me alone. I worshiped me, you know whatI mean?" 

"Of course. Didn't we all?" 

"All my friends, we all worshiped ourselves. We wanted fun,
girls, cars, things, money. You too?" 

"I want to hear the rest of your story, Ree," Ming said, "butit's time for me to use my real voice and tell you the truth." 

He leaned toward her and squinted in the darkness at the change 


in her tone. 

"No," she said. "I never wanted girls. I wanted boys." 

He recoiled, smiling. "Really?" 

"It's not like that," she said. "I am a girl. In fact, I am agrown woman. I have been married. I am a widow." 

"Now you are putting me on!" 

"I'm telling you the truth." And she told her own story for thenext hour or so. 

"Would you believe I have heard of your brother?" Woo said. 

"No! " 

"It's true! No one mentions his name, but many in our undergroundgroup in San Diego know he is there, inside the palace." 

Woo then finished his own story of how scared he was when thedisappearances occurred. "I did not know such fear existed.
Nothing ever bothered me before. I was a daredevil. That's why Iwanted to fly, and not big commercial jets or helicopters orprops. I wanted to fly the fastest, most dangerous. I had manyclose calls, but they only thrilled me and never made me cautiousor careful. I couldn't wait to live on the edge of danger again. 

"But when so many people disappeared, I was so scared I could notsleep. I went to bed with the light on. Don't laugh! I did! Iknew something terrible and supernatural had happened. It was asif only an event that huge could have slowed me down and made methink about anything. Why did these people vanish? Where did theygo? Would I be next? 

"I asked everybody I knew, and even many people who were justlike me and had never even been inside a church started saying 


that it was something God did. If that was true, I had to know. Ibegan asking more people, reading, looking for books in thechaplain's office. I even found a Bible, but I couldn'tunderstand it. Then someone gave me one that was written insimple language. I didn't even know for sure there was a God, butI prayed just in case. This Bible called itself the Word of God,
so I said, `God, if you are out there somewhere, help meunderstand this and find you.' 

"Ming now that is your real name, right? No more surprises?" 

She nodded. "No more." 

"Ming, I read that Bible the way a starving man eats 

bread. I devoured it! I read it all the time. I read it over and 
over, and if I found books and chapters that were too puzzling, Iskipped and found ones I could follow. When I found the Gospelsand the letters from Paul, I read and read until I collapsed fromexhaustion. 

"In the back of the Bible, it listed verses that showed how aperson could become a Christian, a follower of Christ, and havetheir sins forgiven. It said you could know you were saved fromyour sins and would go to heaven when you died or be taken to bewith Christ at the Rapture. I was heartbroken! I was too late! Ibelieved with all my heart that this was what the disappearanceswere all about, and I cried and cried, regretting having missedit. 

"But I followed the verses the salvation guide listed, and Iprayed to God and pleaded for him to forgive me. I told him Ibelieved he died for me and would receive me to himself. I felt 
so clean and free and refreshed, it was as if I had not missedanything at all. I mean, I wish I had been a believer in time tohave been raptured, but I have no doubt that I am saved anywayand that I will be in heaven someday." 


Hours later it seemed to Ming that she and Ree had been lifetimefriends. Exhausted as she was, she would rather hear him talk andwatch him respond to her than sleep. As the sun rose on theYellow Sea, Ming was sickened by the vast expanse of blood thatextended all the way into the harbors. The lower they flew, themore she could see the devastation, the rotting wildlife. Whenthey landed they were issued face masks that did little to filterthe stench. 

Ree was delivering goods for the Co op in Shanghai, but he agreedto take her on to Nanjing, two hundred more miles west. Chang hadtold his parents of an underground church there, and though itwas a big city, Ming prayed God would lead her to them. 

Ree stayed with her as she carefully sought out secret believers.
It was not easy. They would sit in small eateries, and she wouldcarefully tip back her cap occasionally so a fellow believermight see her mark. It was not until Ree did this at a smallgrocery that an old woman approached and did the same to him. Thethree of them met in an alley and quickly shared stories. Mingunderstood the woman's dialect and translated for Ree. 

The old woman said that the underground church was almostnonexistent now in Nanjing and had largely relocated toZhengzhou, yet another three hundred plus miles northwest. Mingfinally slept on the last leg of the journey, but evenunconscious, she worried Ree might doze at the controls. In thedays of tighter aviation rules, he would never have been allowedto fly on so little rest. 

The GC seemed on the rampage in Zhengzhou, hauling the unmarkedto loyalty mark centers, rounding up Jews to take toconcentration camps, and shouting through bullhorns every time anew session of worshiping the image of Carpathia came due. Eventhe thousands who already boasted his mark appeared weary of theconstant requirements and the treatment of the undecided. 

Ming and Ree found a cheap hostel that asked no 


questions and rented them tiny individual rooms, not much biggerthan cots, where they paid too much to sleep too little. But therest took the edge off, and when they met up again they set offto find the underground believers. 

Ming finally connected with a small band of Christ followers whohid in the basement of an abandoned school. Ree had to get backto the airport and eventually to San Diego, and parting with himthough they had just met felt to Ming like an amputation. Hepromised to come back and to be sure that the little church inZhengzhou was added to the Co op list, though they had littlewith which to barter. 

Ming had been able to connect with Chang in New Babylon andlearned of the gradual dispersion of the Tribulation Force fromChicago and the soon relocation of the Williams family to SanDiego. "You must get to know them, Ree," she said, "and becomemore than acquaintances with Sebastian. My dream is to find myparents and take them back there with me one day." 

It was more than a week before Ming found anyone who had heard ofany Wongs, despite the popularity of the name in that area. Itwas a weary old man with liquid eyes who sadly told her, "We knowWongs. Late middle aged couple. He very loyal to potentate butnever took mark." 

"That's him!" Ming said. 

"I so sorry, young one. He was found out." 

"No! " 

"He die with honor." 

"Please, no! " 


"He was believer. Your mother grieving but okay. She with smallgroup about fifty miles west in mountains." 

"And she is a believer too?" Ming asked through tears. 

"Oh yes. Yes. I take you to her when time is right." 

Chapter 

CHANG NEVER felt so isolated, so alone, as over the next fivemonths. He grieved for his father but rejoiced that he was inheaven. He prayed for his mother and his sister, urging Ming tostay there and not try to bring the old woman out. It was, heknew, a horrible time to be in China, but escaping was moreprecarious. 

Chang was intrigued by Ree Woo and helped Chloe arrange Co opflights and connections for him. But for the most part, Chang laylow, especially on the computers. Suhail Akbar had made it apersonal quest to ferret out the mole in the palace. Allemployees were interrogated again and again, but Chang wascertain he had 

aroused no more suspicion than anyone else. He longed for the daywhen he could be as free to keep up with the Trib Force as heonce had. 

The day was likely over when he could pave the way 

for them with phony credentials. And he had to ask Buck to goeasy with what he provided him from the palace for The Truth. Itwas one thing for Buck to write what he knew, but quite anotherto prove it with recordings and video feeds that could have come 


only from bugs in New Babylon itself. 

Chang was thrilled that the dark of night relocations of the TribForce had gone smoothly. So far they had lost no one since StevePlank, who had never officially been part of the Force but wasmourned as if he were. 

Leah and Hannah were staying close to their new home in LongGrove. Their occasional missives about Lionel Whalum and his wife 
proved them to be the type of couple the Trib Force, and the Coop, needed. 

Albie and Mac flew recklessly all over the world in aircraftAlbie seemed to trade on a new black market. Chang worried thatthey didn't have solid phony credentials anymore, but Mac, atleast, seemed to feel invincible after the triumph in Greece. 

Zeke, from what Chang could tell, flourished in a countryenvironment the GC seemed to have forgotten. Many secretbelievers traveled for miles to be transformed by the young manwith the master's touch. 

Word from Enoch and his charges from The Place was lessencouraging. The group had been split up and parceled out tovarious underground homes, individuals, and families. Most ofthem were still active in trading via the Co op, but manydespaired of ever having the kind of camaraderie they had enjoyedin Chicago. 

That city had been devastated again, this time by the 

real thing a nuclear bomb that hit three days after Buck andChloe and Kenny had rendezvoused with Sebastian and flown to SanDiego. GCNN reported a thousand casualties, all Judah ites, butviewers realized that confirming the deaths or numbers would havejeopardized the very people who claimed the count. 

Most thrilling to Chang was keeping up with Buck and Chloe and 


Kenny, who now lived literally underground in a bunker near SanDiego. Sebastian and his family had smoothed the transition, andthe secret church there seemed one of the most vibrant Chang knewof. There Kenny was just one of several babies born since theRapture. 

With the military technology still mostly intact, Buck was ableto re create the setup he had enjoyed in Chicago, and hebroadcast his cyberzine every few days. He had been careful tostay close to home but envied Rayford's getting to live at Petra. 

Now there was where the real action was. 

Four Years into the Tribulation; 

Six Months into the Great Tribulation 

While the atmosphere was still festive and the daily messagesfrom both Tsion and Chaim inspiring, Rayford would not say Petrawas entirely cocooned from the real world. The million there werereminded daily of the 

havoc wrought by Carpathia all over the globe. From everywherecame reports of miracles by thousands of deities who seemedloving, kind, inspiring, and dynamic. It was easy to watch themlive on the internet, reattaching severed limbs, raising thedead, taking blood from the sea and turning it into water so pureand clear that many stepped forward to drink it without harm. 

"False!" Ben Judah preached every day. "Charlatans. Fakers.
Deceivers. Yes, it is real power, but it is not the power of God!
It is the power of the enemy, the evil one. Do not be misled!"
But many were, it was plain. 

Jews were mistreated, persecuted, tortured, and killed on everycontinent. They were paraded across the screen of the GlobalCommunity News Network and trumpedup charges leveled. They weretraitors, commentators said, enemies of the risen potentate, 


would be usurpers of the throne of the living god. 

Over the months, New Babylon's policy on those found without themark of loyalty changed from one that gave violators one lastchance to have it applied immediately to one of zero tolerance.
There was no longer any excuse to have neglected one's duty. Mostbarbaric to Rayford was the vigilante law that now allowed aloyal citizen with a valid mark to kill an unmarked resident onsight. The act was the opposite of a crime. It was lauded andrewarded, and all that was required was to deliver to a local GCfacility the body of a victim who clearly bore no mark onforehead or hand. 

Pity the citizen who was mistaken, however. The 

murder of a loyal Carpathianite was itself punishable by death,
and trials were unheard of. If you could not produce an alibiagainst a charge of murdering a marked loyalist, you were deadwithin twenty four hours. 

Rayford terribly missed his family and the other Trib Forcemembers, but what was good for one was good for all. They hadrelocated and were staying put for a time. He knew it would not,
could not, always be that way. He wanted so badly to get to SanDiego, he could taste it. 

The highlight of his day, beyond hearing the teaching and keepingup with the scattered Force, was the evangelistic messagedelivered every day by one of the two preachers. Had he beenasked if he would enjoy a daily diet of preaching that laid outthe plan of salvation and gave unbelievers the chance to receiveChrist, he might have predicted it would wear thin. 

But every day, day after day, Tsion insisted on either Chaim orhimself delivering just such a message following the normalteaching for the majority who were already believers. And everyday, Rayford found himself thrilled to hear it. 


It wasn't only because someone was saved every day and usuallymore than one. But also, the defiant ones and the undecidedsoften fell in anguish, battling, fighting God. Rayford marveledto watch the spiritual warfare as selfish, sinful men and womencouldn't evade the preaching and yet would not give in, even fortheir own benefit. 

Every evening Chaim would ask new believers to identifythemselves and talk about their old lives and their 

newfound faith. This gathering always culminated in singing,
praying, and celebrating. 

One night, still high from the meeting that spotlighted the newbelievers, Rayford was enjoying a lesson taught by Naomi, theyoung computer whiz. She was teaching anyone who wanted to learnhow to access the various databases and get news from around theworld. 

Rayford was just one of several gathered to learn what theycould, but he was summoned from the session by none other thanChaim himself, who wanted to introduce a new friend. 

Rayford followed Chains a couple of hundred yards, and all alongthe way, people reached out to "Micah," blessing him, thankinghim, telling him they were praying for him and appreciated hisleadership. "Thank you, thank you, thank you," Chaim said,
gripping hands and shoulders as he went. "Praise God. Bless theLord. Blessings on you." 

Finally they reached a clearing where several young people ofdifferent races and cultures sat chatting. They appeared to be intheir late twenties or early thirties. "Ms. Rice?" Chaim saidquietly, and when the short black woman excused herself, theothers watched with interest as she joined Chaim and Rayford. 

"I know you, don't I?" Rayford said, bending to shake her hand.
"Don't tell me. You're a friend of no, you've been on 


television." 

"Bernadette Rice," she said, with a clipped British accent and agleaming smile. "Reporting from Petra, but no longer for theGCNN." 

Rayford didn't know what to say. So she was here on assignment ornot? or what? He smiled at her and glanced at Chaim. "I'll lether tell you," Chaim said. 

The three sat on rocks. "I was at the Temple Mount for GCNN theday that Micah, well, Dr. Rosenzweig, first emerged. I didn'trecognize him. None of us did. I don't know what I would havethought had I known who he was. It was well known, of course,
that he was the one who had assassinated Carpathia. 

"But I was not even thinking of that when I was called to thescene. A woman, a GC Peacekeeping corporal named Riehl forgiveme, but I remember everything and talk this way as a means oforganizing my thoughts pulled me away from a story I was doingabout families visiting the Temple Mount that day. To tell youthe truth, I was none too pleased when she insisted that Rashidthat was my cameraman and I wrap it up and come with her. Idemanded to know what was going on. 

"As she dragged me across the plaza, she said Rashid and I wereabout to get a rare privilege. A high ranking Morale Monitor wasabout to carry out an order from the potentate himself. When wegot there, the tall young man, dressed as the MM do dressycasual, you know was standing with what looked to me like afrail, little old man. Forgive me, Dr. Rosenzweig, but that is myrecollection. 

"Well, sometimes non journalists have different ideas of howexciting a particular story is. I didn't even know if theyexpected this to show live or if we were to record 


it. This MM gentleman just wanted to get on with it, so I askedcentral control who was producing the broadcast what I should do.
They wanted to know who the MM guy was, and before I knew it, hewas insisting that we roll. 

"He said he was Loren Hut, new head of the Morale Monitors, andthat he had been ordered by Carpathia to execute this Micahperson for refusing to take the mark and for resisting arrest. Ido a fast lead in, Rashid focuses on the pair, and it goes liveover GCNN. 

"You'll recall that everyone was starting to get the boils aroundthis time, and Hut was suffering. He was wriggling and scratchingand making me do the same just watching. Did you happen to seeit, Captain Steele?" 

"No, but I heard about it from my " 

"Then you know what happened. Hut shot Micah several times frompoint blank range, and except for the deafening sound, thebullets had no impact. The crowd laughed and accused Hut of usingblanks. He shot a man through the heart for saying that, provinghe was using real bullets. The crowd dived for cover and I fellright to the ground, scared to death. Then Carpathia himselfshowed up. When I could compose myself at all, I crawled awaytoward the loyalty mark application lines, in case anyone waslooking. 

"But from there I went straight to my hotel. I was so glad I hadnot gotten around to accepting the mark yet. This man was anenemy of Carpathia's, and he had some sort of supernaturalprotection I wanted. My superiors 

thought I was suffering from the boils like everyone else, butnothing was going to keep me from following Micah. I watched frommy hotel room, learned about the meeting at Masada, disguisedmyself, went there, and came here as part of the airlift. Only 


recently did I finally pray for salvation." 

"Praise God," Rayford said. "May I ask what took you so long? Youwere here when the bombs were dropped. You were protected by Godthough " 

"Set afire." 

"Yes! I'm really curious. What could give you pause after that?
Surely you did not still doubt God." 

"No, that is true. I don't know how to explain it, CaptainSteele. All I can say is that the enemy has a stronghold over themind until one surrenders it to God. I was a pragmatist, proud, ajournalist. I wanted control over my own destiny. Things had tobe proved to me." 

"But what more proof 

"I know. It mystifies me still. I suppose what comes closest toexplaining the lunacy is the verse that both Dr. Rosenzweig andDr. Ben Judah have often quoted how does it go, Doctor? Somethingabout wrestling not with flesh?" 

Chaim nodded. "We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, butagainst principalities, against powers, against the rulers ofdarkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness inthe heavenly places." 

"Yes, that's it! And that's why we have to wear the armor of God,
right?" 

"That you may be able to withstand the evil day, having done all,
to stand. Amen." 

"I appreciate very much hearing your story, Ms. Rice," Rayfordsaid. "You know my son in law was " 


"There, yes. Dr. Rosenzweig told me. That's why he thought youmight like to hear it." 

Rayford looked to Chaim and back at Bernadette. "Please tell meBuck hasn't heard this yet," he said. 

"Not from me," Chaim said. 

She shook her head. 

"Then, if you'll excuse me . . ." 

Rayford hurried back past where Naomi was finishing her computerclass, down through the tent area where many of the youngerpeople preferred to sleep, and finally to a small encampment ofprefabricated modular homes. They were tiny but well built, hadbeen provided almost wholly by Lionel whalum, the new Co opmember, and had been assembled by a team of volunteers who seemedto reshape the landscape of Petra nearly overnight. 

Rayford, hoping and planning that his stay in the rock city wouldbe only temporary, chose one of the smallest but for him,
efficient units not far from where Abdullah stayed. Smitty likedan open fire and had opted for a tent, not much smaller thanRayford's enclosure, on the edge of one of the bivouac villages. 

Before Rayford ducked into his place, which was barely big enoughfor his bed and all area for his computer and transmittingequipment, he peered down the way to see if Abdullah was stillawake. The Jordanian, 

silhouetted behind a smoky fire, waved at him, then beckoned him. 

"I will join you in an hour or so, my friend!" Rayford called. 

He sat before his computer with two glass jars, one containingwater, the other manna. No preservative or storage was necessaryfor the manna. It would spoil overnight, but there was always a 


fresh supply every morning anyway so saving it was considered alack of faith, and forbidden. 

Rayford entered his code, keyed in the coordinates that allowedhim to interact securely with San Diego some ten hours earlier onthe clock and typed, "Praise God for David Hassid and ChangWong." 

He waited. Buck and Chloe's machine would signal them that he wastrying to communicate, and when one of them typed in their code,
the units could talk to each other. Not only that, but they alsohad video capability. Sensors around the edges of the respectivescreens stored and interpreted digital images and transmittedthem back and forth, so unless the sender turned off that featureboth parties could see each other on the screen. 

A minute later Chloe came on with twenty month old Kennysquirming on her lap. She had to block the boy from reaching forthe keys. Seeing them both made it even harder for Rayford towait to get to San Diego. 

"Hi, Dad," Chloe said. "Say hi to Grandpa, sweetheart. " 

Kenny said, " Gampa ! " and stared at the screen. Ray 

ford tried to situate himself for the best light and transmissionand waved. 

Kenny smiled and opened and closed his hand before the screen. 

"I miss you, Kenny!" 

"Miss! Big boy!" Kenny threw his hands over his head and archedhis back, forcing Chloe to hold him tighter to keep him fromslipping off her lap. 


"Are you a big boy?" Rayford said. 


But Kenny had already lost interest. He wriggled until Chloe let
him down. "You need to come see him," Chloe said. 
"Maybe soon," Rayford said. "I miss you all so much." 
They brought each other up to date. Buck was somewhere with


Sebastian and Ree Woo, so Rayford told Chloe Bernadette Rice's


story. 
"Buck will be thrilled," she said. "You know Ree is headed back
to China. Ming's still not aroused any suspicion. She comes and
goes as she pleases, but she sure wants to get out of there and
bring her mother with her. Maybe this time." 


"They would come to San Diego?" 
"Yes. I think she's sweet on Ree." 
"Doesn't surprise me. I got to meet him, you know, on one of his


runs here." 
"Nobody told me that!" 
"Yeah, he talks about her. Seems preoccupied with her. I thought


I told you." 
"No. 'Course I'm buried with Co op stuff most of the day. It's
getting harder and harder, Dad. Has Tsion said 


anything about the lifting of the plague? Or are these thingspermanent?" 

"The previous ones haven't been. But this has held the longest.
Tsion thinks the Bowl Judgment on the lakes and rivers is 


imminent. That one is for sure not permanent. " 

"It's not? How does he know?" 

"He says there's a later judgment, one of those that ushers inthe Battle of Armageddon and the Glorious Appearing, that callsfor the drying up of the Euphrates River. And it clearly says itdries up its waters." 

"That's a relief, but if the rivers and lakes turn to blood soonand don't happen to turn back to water until almost Armageddon, Idon't know. Should the seas clear up before the rivers and lakesturn, or does that even make sense? " 

"No one knows, Chloe. And what happens if the seas do turn backto salt water? How long would it take to replenish them? " 

"And what would we do with everything that's dead now? Thecleanup alone would take a hundred years. At least we might beable to treat salt water and make it potable, because if thelakes and rivers turn too and if the seas are still affected I 
don't know how anybody or anything stays alive." 

"Tsion says God will winnow out many who have the mark of thebeast so they can't continue to evangelize for the evil side. Iguess he wants to even the odds a little for the last battle." 

"As if he needs to do that, Dad." 

"How are you holding up, honey?" 

"Exhausted, that's all. But we love the Sebastians and the bodyof believers here. If you have to live through this time, this isthe place to be." 

It was well after midnight in Zhengzhou, and Ming was homesick.
For where, she was uncertain. She had no home anymore. She wantedto be with Ree woo, though they had never so much as held hands. 


He had visited her more than once as he had promised, and theyhad become dear friends, a brother and sister in Christ. 

Ming didn't know whether it made sense to think of him inromantic terms anyway, with only three years left before theGlorious Appearing. Besides, Ree had a ridiculously dangerousjob, and who wanted to risk being widowed twice within a fewyears? On the other hand, what might it be like if they bothsurvived? She would have to study what Dr. Ben Judah had to sayabout married couples entering into the millennial kingdom. 

Though Ming was with her mother, still she did not feel at home.
Sure, she understood the language, even some of the more obscuredialects, because she had grown up in China. But the believerslived in constant fear, slept in communal rooms with littleprivacy, and never knew who might come knocking in the dead ofnight. 

Her mother seemed remarkably at peace in spite of the recent lossof her husband, though she told Ming 

she wished she could have died with him. Though Mrs. Wong was anew believer, she was a worrier by nature, and she had grownfatalistic over the past several weeks. Ming tried to talk herinto sneaking out of China and going to live in San Diego, buther mother would not hear of it. This was her home such as it was 
and California sounded like a different planet. She worried aboutChang, and she worried about Ming, both playacting as employeesof the Global Community. 

Ming, still masquerading as Chang Chow and living essentially asa man when away from the underground shelter, was constantly onedge. Her brother offered to set it up in the computer that shewas a full fledged employee, entitled to a paycheck and benefits.
She refused for his sake, knowing how intense the scrutiny had tobe in New Babylon. A little money would allow her to complete the 


ruse and live in her own small place, but it would not be worthit if it left Chang vulnerable at the palace. And so she scrapedby on the meager pool of resources among the believers. 

Ming tried to keep her distance from other Peacekeepers, thoughsome wanted to be chums and invited her to various places withthem. She always found excuses. Hardest for her was beingrandomly assigned duties by anyone superior to her in rank. Sheherself had been a top official at the Belgium Facility forFemale Rehabilitation (BFFR), a women's prison better known amongthe GC as Buffer. But now, in her male Peacekeeper uniform, Mingwas just a grunt, someone for most of the others to boss around. 

At least this gave her some access to information, and she wasable to warn fellow believers about raids and surprise canvasses. 

At two o'clock one morning the local GC had planned a raid not ofChrist followers but of a small Muslim contingent who lived inthe northeast corner of the city in caverns where the subway onceran. Ming was surprised to hear of this group, as she had beenlargely unaware of holdouts against Carpathianism besides the socalled Judah ites and the mostly Orthodox Jews. At a meetingrallying the GC troops to root out the dissidents, Ming learnedthat these "zealots" still read the Koran, wore their turbans,
almost totally covered their female population, and practiced thefive pillars of Islam. 

She had not seen anyone bowing toward Mecca five times a day, butIntelligence had determined that this group still followed thatdictum in private. They also contributed alms a communal givingand sharing of resources that would have been necessary anyway,
given the current political climate It was not known whetherthese adherents more prevalent in western China still fastedduring Ramadan. It seemed everyone was fasting in one way oranother since the seas had turned to blood. There was no gettingto Mecca at least once in a lifetime anymore either, not since 


the Global Community and Carpathianism had leveled the Muslims'sacred city. 

The pillar of their faith that so enraged the potentate and thusthe Global Community Peacekeepers and Morale 

Monitors was the first and foremost tenet of the Islamic 
religion. Their profession of faith declared a monotheistic god"There is but one God, Allah. . ." and the high status of thefounder of the religion ". . . and Muhammad is his prophet." 

Of course, that flew in the face of Carpathianism, which was alsomonotheistic. Neither were the Muslims idol worshipers, so notonly were there no statues associated with their practice offaith, but they were also loathe to pay homage to the image ofCarpathia. 

"That will be their choice in about half an hour," the localleader, a thick man named Tung, told the GC troops. "We'll stormtheir little enclave, fully armed and prepared to shoot unmarkedpeople on sight. But our wish and our hope are that they do notresist. I have it on good authority from high levels in theGlobal Community Palace that a certain someone at the highestlevel wants these people used as living examples. 

"We will march them to the loyalty mark application site aboutsix blocks from their hideout, and there they will spend thenight deciding what they will do in the morning. As the sun riseson the beautiful, jade, life size image of Supreme PotentateCarpathia, these infidels will either bow the knee to himprepared to accept his mark of loyalty or they will be executedin full view of the public. Little do they know that regardlessof their decision, they will be executed anyway. GCNN plans toair this live." 

The GC all around Ming burst into cheers and applause. They thenlined up to be issued weapons; hers 


turned out to be a grenade launcher she would not use, no matterwhat. If that meant the end of her life too, so be it. 

Rayford found Abdullah Smith warming himself by his fire. Smitty,
who had become much more expressive and emotional over the pastfew months, rose quickly and embraced Rayford. "It is as if I amalready in heaven, my friend,"' he said. "I miss the flying, butI love all this teaching. And the food! Who would have guessedthat the same meal three times a day would be something I solooked forward to ? " 

Rayford didn't know how Abdullah could sit so flat andcomfortably cross legged. He made it look normal and easy, yetRayford seemed to creak and groan going down, and cramped up ashe sat. He always gave way to unfolding himself and leaning onone hand with his legs out to the side. This amused Abdullah tono end. 

"You westerners brag so much about working out, and yet it hasnot made you limber." 

"I think you sit on a magic carpet," Rayford said. 

Abdullah laughed. "I wish Mac were here. He inspires me to thinkof earthy . . . of earthy what? Comebacks? Is that what he callsthem?" 

"Probably. With Mac, you never know. Did you see him today?" 

,.,.Of course. He and Albie always look me up when they get here,
tease me about getting fat on the manna, and want to know when Iwill join their little band of 

fliers. The day will come soon, I hope. For now, the elders think 



it is too dangerous, but my guess is that you too are eager toget going." 

"More than you know," Rayford said. "And while I am content tosubmit to the authority here, still I wonder. " 

"So do I! God is clearly supernaturally protecting those who flyin and out of here, despite all the efforts of the enemy. Youwould think that would give the GC an idea to stop wastingbullets and missiles. Have they hit anyone or anything?" 

Rayford shook his head. "Not yet. And the stories. Have you heardthe stories?" 

Abdullah let his head fall back and gazed at the stars. "I haveheard them, Captain. I want to be part of one. I want the Lord toonce again protect me from harm and death by sending one of hisspecial visitors. The flight here, when the GC were shootingright through our craft? That was like living in the Bible days.
I felt like Daniel in the den of the lions. I could see the 
missiles coming and I knew we were in the way, yet they passedright through. 

"Captain, what must the GC think when they see this happen in thelight of the sun almost every day?"

 blank 

Chapter 

MING MARCHED through the streets with the other local GC to thenortheast corner of Zhengzhou. Few citizens were out and about,
but the Muslims were known to have one of their worship andlecture periods at this time of the morning. 


The GC leader, Tung, fanned out the armed group of around thirtyPeacekeepers and sent them to four entrances to the old subwaythat marked the borders of the area the Muslims occupied.
Apparently the group had never been bothered after midnight,
because it was guarded merely by a lone man at each entrance atthe bottom of the stairs. The guards were quickly and quietlyovertaken, and none could produce a mark of loyalty to show theGC. They were taken to the surface by a couple of GC who wouldwalk them to the mark application site. The rest of thePeacekeepers silently 

moved in on the meeting of about four dozen men and women. TheMuslims immediately realized their security had been breached andno resistance was possible. 

So they simply stayed where they were, listening to a speaker,
one of their own. Tung had foreseen this possibility and hadinstructed his people to merely wait and listen themselves,
gathering evidence of treason and disloyalty to Carpathianism. 

The speaker seemed to quickly assess the situation and began toclose his remarks. But often looking directly at his captors, hewas devout and defiant to the end. "And so," he said, "we viewgod as more than the creator of all things, but also all knowing,
full of justice, loving and forgiving, and all powerful. Webelieve he revealed the Koran to our prophet so he could guide usto justice and truth. We are his highest creation, but we areweak and selfish and too easily tempted by Satan to forget ourpurpose in life." 

He paused to gaze at the GC once again. "We know that the veryword Islam means to submit. And those of us who submit to god,
repenting of our sins, gain paradise in the end. Those who do notwill suffer in hell." 

The Muslims then bowed toward Mecca and began to pray all butthree. These sat together at the back of the assemblage, and when 


Tung stepped forward to call a halt to the proceedings, one ofthe three stood and pointed at him and held a finger to his lips.
"Wait," he said quietly, but with such strength of character andMing couldn't put her finger on it conviction, perhaps, w 

that Tung stopped. His people looked at him and back at thestanding man. 

The Muslims looked up from their prayers and turned to sit again.
The three men carefully stepped through the crowd and made theirway to the front where the speaker had been. "This meeting is notover yet," one of them said. 

Ming was puzzled. The three were not armed. Though they wore garbsomewhat similar to the Muslims, it was not the same. They woresandals and robes, no turbans. Their beards and hair wererelatively short. They did not look Asian or Eastern. In fact,
Ming realized, she would not have been able to guess theirnationalities from their look or the speaker's accent. He spokejust loudly enough to be heard, but again, with a certain qualityeveryone found riveting. 

"My name is Christopher. My coworkers are Nahum and Caleb. Wevisit you on behalf of the one and only true God of Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, the Holy One of Israel and the Father of ourLord and Savior, Jesus the Messiah. We come not to discussreligion, but to preach Christ and him crucified, dead, buried,
and resurrected after three days, now sitting at the right handof God the Father." 

Suddenly Christopher spoke with a voice so loud that many coveredtheir ears, yet Ming believed they could still hear everysyllable. "Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of hisjudgment has come! Worship him who made heaven and earth, the seaand springs of water! " 


Christopher seemed to let that settle with everyone, then in moremuted tones said, "Christ died for our sins according to theScriptures; he was buried, and he rose again the third dayaccording to the Scriptures. Now if Christ be preached that herose from the dead, how say some among you that there is noresurrection of the dead? 

"If there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ notrisen. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain,
and faith in Christ is also vain. We testify of God that heraised up Christ. If Christ be not raised, men and women are yetdead in their sins." 

Ming searched the faces of the Muslims, whom she expected to risein protest. Perhaps it was because their captors were at hand, orbecause they realized that this preaching also defiedCarpathianism, but they did not object. They appeared mesmerized,
if only at the audacity of an outsider disregarding their beliefsand preaching his own. 

Christopher stepped back and Nahum stepped forward. "Babylonshall fall," he said. "That great city, because she has made allnations drink the wrath of her fornication, shall surely fall.
Hers has been a system of false hope not only religiously, butalso economically and governmentally. 

"God is jealous, and the Lord will have his revenge. He will takevengeance on his adversaries, and he reserves his wrath for hisenemies. 

"The Lord is slow to anger and great in power. He will have hisway in the whirlwind and in the storm. The clouds are the dust ofhis feet." 


The GC seemed to tremble, and Ming looked to Tung, whose lipsquivered. He gripped his weapon tighter, but he did not move. 

Nahum continued: "God rebukes the sea and makes it blood. He can 
dry up all the rivers. The mountains quake at him, and the hillsmelt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yes, the world,
and all that dwell in it. 

"Who can stand before his indignation? Who can abide thefierceness of his anger? His fury will be poured out like fire,
and the rocks shall be thrown down by him. 

"The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. He knowsthem that trust in him. But with an overrunning flood he willmake an utter end of the place that opposes him, and darknessshall pursue his enemies." 

Everyone in the underground sat or stood unmoving, arms close totheir sides. It was as if they were folded in upon themselves,
made fearful by Nahum's pronouncement. When he stepped back,
Caleb moved up, but rather than address everyone, he turned andstared directly at Tung. 

"If any man worships the beast and his image, and receives hismark on his forehead or on his hand, that one shall drink of thewine of the wrath of God, which is poured out into the cup of hisindignation. The one with the mark shall be tormented with fireand brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in thepresence of the Lamb, who is Christ the Messiah. 

"The smoke of his torment ascends forever and ever, and he willhave no rest day or night, he who 

worships the beast and his image and receives the mark of hisname." 

At first no one moved. Then one GC and another, then one more,
raced from the underground, taking the steps to the street two at 


a time. Tung shouted after them, called them by name, threatenedthem. But two and then three more followed. 

The Muslims had not moved. Finally some stood, but the GC whowatched Tung did not know what to do. He raised his weapon towardthe three outsiders but appeared unable to speak. Finally findinghis voice, he said, "To the center! " 

The GC began surrounding the Muslims, who, except for a halfdozen, allowed themselves to be led out and up the stairs. Tungnodded to two of his men and signaled that they should join himto round up the final six. But as they approached, Christophermerely leaned toward the GC and said, "It is not yet their time." 

Ming stalled and maneuvered in such a way that she was the lastone out, trailing the main group. It was clear that Christopher,
Nahum, and Caleb were talking with and praying with the sixstragglers. Christopher told Tung, "These will come when it istheir time." And to Ming's astonishment, the GC leader beckonedthe last two guards, and they left. 

Ming had been so moved, she realized she had not noticed whetherthe three strangers had the mark of the believer on theirforeheads. They had to, didn't they? She wanted to know, but shedid not expect to see them again. 

As the petrified group of Muslims was led through the streets tothe loyalty mark application site, Ming allowed herself to hangback far enough that, despite her small stature, she could seepast them for several blocks. 

Huge klieg lights lit up the center, but no one in the area knewof the raid, and few spectators were there only the GC who hadfirst rousted the four Muslim guards. But unless her eyesdeceived her, Ming believed she saw three more strangers in robeswith short hair and beards and no turbans. They could have been amatched set with the other trio! 


But as the GC and the Muslims drew closer, they all began topoint and talk among themselves. It was the same three! Theystood at the head of the line, ignoring the vociferous GCclerical workers who told them to move aside. 

As the Muslims were herded into line, Ming got a closer look atthe three. They did not have the mark of the believer on theirforeheads! She didn't know what to make of it. Were theyunderground rebels, charlatans, what? 

Tung rushed them, brandishing his rifle. "Where are the others?
We will hunt them down, and you will be responsible " 

"They will come when it is their time," Christopher said again.
And somehow that shut Tung up. 

The Muslims were instructed on how to be processed. When Tungasked how many would be taking the mark of loyalty to Carpathia,
about half raised their hands. The others groaned and argued withthem. 

Tung laughed. "It makes no difference! Don't you see? You waitedtoo long. You were discovered this very morning, months past thedeadline for taking the mark. You will die at dawn with therest." 

He turned to the others. "And how many of you are choosing theguillotine, as if there was a choice?" 

The rest of the Muslims raised their hands, and yet Ming noticedthat none of them had the mark of the believer either. 
Christopher addressed them. "Resist the temptation to choose theguillotine without choosing Christ the Messiah. You will die invain." 

"We will die for Allah!" one shouted, and the others raised fists 


of defiance. 

"You will die all the same," Tung said. 

His attention was diverted to the street, and everyone turned tosee the last six Muslims striding purposefully toward the site.
Ming could tell Tung had not expected to see them again. Whenthey arrived, they seemed to assess the layout, then headeddirectly for the area that led to the guillotines. 

"I am glad you are so decisive," Tung said. "But we are closeduntil daybreak. Then you will be television stars, and a liveaudience will enjoy the show as well." 

Christopher and Nahum and Caleb sat before the undecideds, eachtalking to a small group, pleading, explaining, urging them toreceive Christ before it was too late. Finally Tung had had it.
"Enough!" he shrieked. "You are finished here! These people madetheir choices long ago, and punishment will be meted out in themorning. Now, begone!" 

The three ignored him. But he would not be put off. 

"In five seconds I will open fire on you and instruct my peopleto do the same." 

Ming panicked. She would not fire on these men of God! Could shepretend, hide, somehow go unnoticed? 

Tung waited a few beats and raised his weapon. He was six feetfrom Christopher's head when he released the safety and squeezedthe trigger, calling out, "Peacekeepers, open fire!" 

Ming moved into position and made a show of readying her grenadelauncher. Surely Tung did not expect her to deposit an explosivein the middle of everyone, Muslims, GC, and all. But she quickly 


realized she was the only one moving. Everyone else appearedfrozen. Tung's face was set in the grimace of a man about to blowanother's head off. 

Ming tried to stop moving but was off balance and tripped on thefoot of the man next to her, having to catch herself on yetanother on her other side. She feared she had been exposed now,
the only one not under the spell of the holy men. 

But Christopher addressed her directly. "Do not fear, dearsister. " 

So she had been given away! Now all would know she was not even aman! 

"God is with you," Christopher said. "None of these can hear us,
and none will remember what happened here, except that theiroffensive against the spokesmen of the Lord was futile. Beencouraged. Be of good cheer. Your Father in heaven looks uponyou with 

pleasure, and you will not see death before his Son returnsagain. " 

Ming felt a glow as if she were flushed from head to toe. Awarmth rode through her that enlivened her, gave her strength andcourage. She was curious. If Christopher knew the mind of God,
could he tell her more? Ming could not open her mouth, yet shehad so many questions. 

Christopher answered even the unasked. "Neither will your mothersee death before the glorious appearing of the King of kings. Butyou will be separated soon. You will return to your friends, notall of whom will remain on this earth to the end." 

Ming wanted to ask who, but still she could not make herself 


speak. Her limbs, warm and liquid, felt heavy and immobile. Allshe could do was stare at Christopher. She felt as if she weresmiling, in fact as if her entire body was. 

Christopher stood, and Nahum and Caleb joined him. As shewatched, they seemed to grow larger until they towered over thearea. Christopher reached out an open hand to her, but she couldnot move to take it and feared anyway that her body would beenveloped by it. 

"And now," he said, "may the God of peace who brought again fromthe dead our Lord Jesus, that great Shepherd of the sheep,
through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you perfectin every good work to do his will, working in you that which iswell pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom beglory for ever and ever." 

The three were gone, and suddenly it was morning. The sun wasbright and warm. Tung and his people acted as if they knew theywere on the air, serious looks plastered on their faces. Theystrode about through the crowd of onlookers and Muslims. 

All the victims of the raid were in line for the blade, and toMing's surprise and great joy, at least twenty-five of them borenot only the mark of the believer, but also a look of assuranceand deep peace that said they would have the grace to accept theconsequences of their decision. 

It was nearly half a year later before Chang began to feel thepressure had lightened, if only a bit, at the palace compound. Hetried a little something new every day, tapping in here andthere, checking the memory disk David Hassid had buried deepwithin the system. It was all there, everything that had gone onin the place since Chang began to lie low. He had not listened into anything live, but he could check his calendar for specificevents and go back to hear what had gone on behind closed doors 


on those days. 

His sister had finally escaped China, their mother insisting thatMing go back to the United North American States "with your youngman. I will be fine here." Ming told Chang she had not told theirmother of Christopher's promise that neither of them would seedeath before the Glorious Appearing, but that "Mother seems 

to get along as if that is her intention anyway to make it to theend." 

Ming rhapsodized to Chang about how wonderful it had felt tofinally get on board with Ree, to fly all day, to get past easiercheckpoints and wind up in San Diego, finally able to get rid ofher male GC Peacekeeper's uniform and let her hair grow out . . .
to be a woman again. 

"For Ree?" Chang had asked via secure phone. 

"For me!" she said. "Well, maybe a little for him." 

"How's that going?" 

"None of your business." 

"Of course it is." 

"It's safe to say we're an item," she said, "but it's awfullyhard to concentrate on that with him gone almost all the time.
The people here tease me about it, even Captain Steele. But Reeand I are not really romantic yet." 

"He hasn't kissed you?" 

"I didn't say that." 

"That sounds romantic." 


"It was a kiss good bye before his last run and a kiss ofgreeting when he returned. It was in front of people, so no,
romantic it was not." 

Chang was curious about how Rayford was getting along, relocatingonce again. 

"It's been hard for him, Chang. He's thrilled to be back with hisfamily, of course, and you should see him with that grandson! Buthe still feels isolated from much of the Tribulation Force, eventhough Sebastian has had a techie in here giving him all of uswhatever we need 

to carry on as before. Living literally beneath the ground canget depressing. And I know he misses many of the advantages hehad at Petra." 

To Chang's mind, the one who had benefited most at Petra wasAbdullah Smith. He was flying again, making regular runs in andout of the place, many of them with his old friends Mac andAlbie. But he had chosen, and they had agreed, that he shouldcontinue to live in Petra. He had become expert on the computerand frequently regaled the rest of the Trib Force with his latestescapades, many of which happened right there at Petra. He hadjust filed a long account with Rayford and copied everyone else.
He wrote in English for everyone's benefit, and was stilllearning. It read: 

Late yesterday after the noon we had a very special time here asDr. Ben Judah instructed us on living in the Spirit. That is theHoly Spirit, which I knew some about from his previous teachings,
but not nearly enough. 

Captain Steele, you will recall that just before you left, therehad been some trouble here. Nothing too major, but people gettingon each other's nervousness and complaining to the elders aboutthis and that. Well, do you know who straightened all that outand got people to get along better? No, not Dr. Ben Judah, but 


Chaim. Yes, it's true. He has become quite a wise leader and verybeloved by everyone here. My spell checker is making beloveredblink madly, but that is what he is, most certainly. 

Anyway, today Dr. Ben Judah talked about Chaim, who many herestill like to call Micah. His Bible passage was Ephesi.ans : ,
which talks about being filled with the Spirit, having a song inyour heart (I liked that especially), having an attitude ofthankfulness, and submitting to one another. He said those werecharacteristics of Chaim, and from the reaction of the people, Iwould have to say they agreed enthusiastically. 

He also referred to Galatians : , which list the nine fruits ofthe Spirit. I know you know this, Captain Steele, but as mymessages to you also go into my personal journal, let me listthem here: love, joy, peace, patience, gentleness, goodness,
faith, humility, and self control. I don't know about you, butmany of these were not part of my nature, culture, or background.
But again, they have become part of the personality of Chaim,
making him a great leader here. 

It was such good teaching, Captain Steele. I took many notes. Dr.
Ben Judah told everyone that if we could all learn to walk in theSpirit, we would have an easier time getting along for two and ahalf mare years. He told us that besides the nine characteristicsand the joyful, thankful, submissive heart, we will know we havethe Spirit when we have the power to tell other people aboutChrist. He took that from Acts :, where Jesus told his disciplesthat they would have power after the Holy Spirit came upon themand that 

they would be witnesses to him to the ends of the earth. 

Believe it or not, we have to be witnesses even here. There are 


still some among us who have not chosen Christ. The trouble nowis that there are rumors of miracle workers in the Negev, not farfrom here. Many have said they heard about this from friendsoutside. Some even said they read of it in Mr. Williams's TheTruth. Well, I know they could have, because it was in there, buthe made it very clear that these people were fakes, pretenders.
Even if they can perform some magic tricks, they were put inplace by Carpathia and are not to be trusted. 

But can you believe it? There are groups here who plan to ventureout and hear these people! I must have the Spirit, CaptainSteele, because I myself and you know how shy I am am preachingagainst this, pleading with people not to go. 

Have you heard the rumors that the head of Carpathianism, the onewe know to be the False Prophet, is himself challenging Dr. BenJudah to a televised debate? I cannot believe his foolishness! 
Does he not remember that it was Dr. Ben Judah's television 
message about Jesus being the Messiah that first brought him tothe attention of the world? Why does he think Dr. Ben Judah hassuch a big following yet today? 

No thinking person would allow Leon Fortunato 

inside Petra, of course, and neither would any of us advise Dr.
Ben Judah to venture out to some Global Community approved site.
So if this is to happen, Tsion will probably be on camera fromhere, and Leon from who knows where? Frankly, I hope the GC isfoolish enough to follow through with this and that they have thecourage to air it live and not censored. 

I continue to be thrilled to be able to serve God under his 
divine protection. And though it happens nearly every time I fly,
I never get tired of seeing the GC threaten and warn and even tryto blast us out of the sky and then waste their missiles andbullets, missing us from point blank range. Many of them must be 


among those who would change their minds about God and about


Nicolae Carpathia, if only it wasn't too late for them. 
Rayford always loved hearing from Smitty. There was a youth and
innocence about him that had nothing to do with his age. In fact,
he was still in his early thirties, but Rayford loved him like a 
son. 


He was shutting down his computer when Chloe came knocking. She
was alone. "Got a minute?" she said. 
"For you, are you kidding? Where are your men?" 
"Doing Kenny's favorite thing." 
"wrestling on the floor," Rayford said. 
"Exactly. I'm telling you, Dad, since a little before his 


birthday, we've been finding out what the Terrible Twos are all
about." 


"It's not that bad, is it? He's naturally going to be a little
rambunctious, having to play inside all the time." 


"We'll survive. Roughhousing with his dad takes a little of the
steam out of him. He's all boy, I can tell you that. But, hey,
this is a business call." 


"Really?" 


"I need to call in a favor. Do you owe me anything?" 


"Let's pretend I owe you everything. Give me an assignment. Co
op, I assume." 



"Oh yeah. One of our biggest trades ever could happen in abutthree months, but it has to be done by air, and we need a largerthan normal crew. I'd like you to head it up on the western side.
Mac's going to run things from the east." 

"That big, huh? I'm all ears." 

"I've been sitting on this awhile, trading off bits of it hereand there, but both parties have too much inventory. They don'tneed what they've got, but they're ready to trade with eachother. You know how water has become as valuable as wheat?" 

"Sure." 

"Our Argentine friends are willing to prove it. We've got acontingent, run by a Luis Arturo, at Gobernador Gregores on theChico River. They've harvested thousands of bushels of wheat.
Naturally they are worried they're on borrowed time, with thesize of the operation. And they're worried about water. The Chicois 

getting more polluted all the time, and they are suspecting it'sintentional on the part of the GC." 

"They've got wheat and need water. Who's got water?" 

"The most unlikely place. Well, maybe not as unlikely as themiddle of the desert, but this isn't a place you normally thinkof for bottled water. Probably the biggest underground churchoutside of America. Bihari's group at the Rihand Dam." 

"You're not saying . . ." 

"I am " 

"India ? 

" 


"That's the place. They've got about as much volume of water asthe Argentineans have wheat, and they're willing to tradestraight up." 

"You need more than a big crew, hon. " 

"Tell me about it. We need big planes. Albie got something linedup out of Turkey, of all places, and he's having it retrofittedto hold the skids of water." 

"Regardless, it should work fine for the wheat." 

"Thing is, Dad, we can't wait. We've got to do this almostsimultaneously. The wheat's got to be heading toward India whilethe water's on its way. Albie and Mac are going to pick upAbdullah and bring Bihari with them. I'd like you to choose threeother guys from the States " 

"Well, Buck and George " 

"Not including Buck this time, if you don't mind. Don't look atme that way. It's just a feeling." 

"That this is a doomed mission? Thanks for sending met " 

"Not at all. I just think Kenny needs him right now, and franklyI may be self serving or prejudiced or whatever I don't think he 
has the time to take away from The Truth. " 

Rayford leaned back and looked at the ceiling. "George and Reefrom here, if you can spare 'em." 

"We've got time to work around their schedules, sure. " 

"And I'd look first to Whalum for a plane that big. And if he'sgot one, he ought to bring it here to pick us up and serve as ourfourth." 


"I'm for that," Chloe said. "That'll get Leah off my back." 
"Still wants a ride to Petra?" 
"Yeah. Which is not all bad, except we haven't been able to work


it out yet, and I think she's taking it personally." 
"What a shock, eh?" 
"Well, we both know what she's up to, and I'd almost like to get


Tsion's permission before I send her over there to start stalking


that's overstated shadowing him." 
When the time came for the project, Lionel Whalum was en route to
San Diego, sans Leah, who was none too happy.


 blank 


Chapter 


"Your best? I mean, one of your " 


"No less. Our goal should be to leave Petra a ghost town! " 


"Oh, sir, I " 


"when did you become such a pessimist, Leon? We call you the MostHigh Reverend Father of Carpathianism, and I have offered myselfas a living god, risen from the dead, with powers from on high.
Yours is merely a sales job, Leon. Remind the people what theirpotentate has to offer, and watch them line up. And we have aspecial, you know." 

"A special, sir?" 

"Yes! We are running a special! This week only, anyone from Petrawill be allowed to take the mark of loyalty with no punishment 


for having missed the deadline, now long since past. Think of theinfluence they can have on others just like them." 

"The fear factor has worked fairly well, Potentate." 

"Well, it is sort of a no more Mr. Nice Guy campaign, one wouldhave to admit. But the time is past for worrying about my image.
By now if people do not know who I am and what I am capable of,
it is too late for them. But some blow to the other side, somevictory over the curse of the bloody seas that can only help. AndI want you to do well against Ben Judah, Leon. You are learnedand devout, and you ask for worship of a living, breathing godwho is here and who is not silent. It takes no faith. to believe 
in the deity of one you can see on television every day. I shouldbe the easy, convenient, logical choice." 

"Of course, Majesty, and I shall portray you that way." 

THE REMNANT 

Lionel Whalum turned out to be a compact black man, a tick undersix feet and about two hundred pounds. He wore glasses and hadsalt and pepper hair, and was a skilled pilot of almost any sizecraft. He brought a transport lumbering into the clandestinestrip in San Diego, and within an hour was airborne again withGeorge and Ree in the back and Rayford in the copilot's seat. 

"Chloe has told me so much about you," Rayford said, "but it'sall been business. I think I know the basics of that story, buthow did you become a believer?" 

"I love when people ask," Whalum said. "A big reason I was leftbehind had to do with how I lived. I know there's nothing wrongwith being successful and making money, but in my case, speaking 


just for me now, it made me deaf and blind somehow. I had tunnelvision. Don't get me wrong. I was a nice guy. My wife, she was anice lady. Still is. We ran in our circles, had nice things, abeautiful home. Life was good. 

"We were even church people. I had grown up going to church, butI was a little embarrassed about it, to tell you the truth. Ithought my mama and my aunties were a little too emotional andshowy. And about the time I 

Tim LaHaye & Jerry B. Jenkirzs 

and that Jesus wouldn't even go there. I would have said it wassophisticated and proper. 

"That's the kind of church Felicia and I found in the suburbs 
too. It fit our lifestyle to a T. We could dress the way we didfor work or socializing. We saw people we knew and cared about.
And we definitely were never hollered at or insulted from thepulpit. Nobody called us sinners or hinted that we might need toget something right in our lives. 

"Now our kids, on the other hand two girls with a boy in betweenthey went the other direction. They got off to college and woundup, every one of them, in the kind of church I grew up in. Wroteus. Pleaded with us to get saved. Asked why we hadn't exposedthem to this when they were kids. Flabbergasted me, I have totell you. 

"But did it reach me, change my mind? Not on your life. But thensomebody in our neighborhood invited us to a Bible study. If ithadn't been for who it was, we never would have gone. But thiswas a cool guy. This was a guy who had made it, and big, in realestate development. He made this deal sound as casual as a golf 


game. No pressure. No hassle. They just read the Bible and talkedabout it, and they traded off meeting in about six differenthomes. We said sure, put our house on the list, and never missed. 

"I was kind of bemused by it. After a while they started addingprayer to the thing. Nobody got called on or had to pray, and soFelicia and I didn't. But people starting telling prayerrequests, asking for prayer for 

THE REMNANT 

their families and themselves, their ailments, even theirbusinesses. I mentioned a couple of prayer requests now and then,
but still I never prayed. 

"One time the guy who invited us the first time asked if he couldtalk to us afterward. When it was just the four of us his wifedidn't say anything he kind of put it to us. Wanted to know wherewe were spiritually. I thought he meant where did we go tochurch, so I told him. He told me that wasn't what he meant. Helaid out how to become a born again Christian. I had heard it. Iknew. It was just a little overboard for me, that's all. I toldhim I appreciated his concern and asked if he would pray for us.
That always got 'em, was my experience. But he thought I meantright then, and so he did. 

"He wasn't pushy. Just a little intrusive. I forgave him. That'ssort of what it felt like. I thought it was good to feel sostrongly about something and feel so deeply that you felt youshould tell your friends and neighbors about it. That was it forme, end of story. No big deal. 

"Two days later, millions of people all over the worlddisappeared. Including are you ready? every last person in thatBible study except us. And all three of our kids were gone. 


"Saved? We got saved in, like, ten minutes." 

Abdullah was so excited about the operation with his old friendsthat he had been packed and ready for several days. He didn'tknow or care how much of the actual 

piloting he would get to do. It would be enough to be togetherwith Mac and Albie. To him the idea that the International 
Commodity Co op could pull off such a huge trade, given thestepped up persecution of believers around the globe, was justone more proof of the sovereignty of God. 

When he knew Rayford and the other three from San Diego were inthe air, he could barely contain himself. They would headdirectly to Argentina to load the wheat, which meant Mac andAlbie would soon be on their way to pick up Abdullah. They wereoften spied upon and followed, so the plan was that they wouldbring some supplies into Petra and stay the night, not leavingfor India until the next day. That way, if everything workedaccording to plan, the three of them plus their Indian fourth,
Bihari, would be in the air toward Argentina at the same time theAmericans were on their way from Argentina to India. 

Abdullah felt a spring in his step as he moved about Petra,
singing more loudly with the mass congregation, trying to payattention and listen as Tsion and Chaim taught the Scriptures.
This was the day that the computer and television technologycenter in the city would beam a signal of Tsion to GlobalCommunity headquarters at the palace in New Babylon, and a largemonitor in Petra would receive the GC's transmission of Leon 
Fortunato. Abdullah, for one, believed Leon didn't have a cluewhat he was up against in a man as scholarly as Tsion especiallyconsidering Tsion was a man of honor and truth. 

Early in the afternoon Abdullah scaled the heights and 


THE REMNANT 

peeked down from one of the high places onto the airstrip thathad been built just for runs in and out of Petra. When Mac andAlbie arrived, Abdullah would pilot a chopper to the end of therunway and bring them into the city. 

As he scrambled back down, looking for something to occupy himuntil the great debate, he was surprised to see yet anothergathering of thousands, with Chaim and Tsion trying to quietthem. Were they early for the telecast, or was something amiss?
As he drew closer, he could see that several hundred of these didnot bear the mark of the believer on their foreheads. They werejostling for front position for the debate because, one of themhollered, as soon as it was over, they were leaving Petra for afew hours to hear another speaker. "He will be right close by,
and many believe he is the Christ. Jesus come back to earth toperform miracles and explain the future!" 

"Please!" Chaim called out. "You must not do this! Do you notknow you are being deceived? You know of this only through theevil ruler of this world and his False Prophet. Stay here insafety. Put your trust in the Lord! " 

"Who are you but the second in command?" someone demanded. "Ifthe leader will not beseech us to stay, why should we stay?" 

"I do beseech you," Tsion began, but Chaim interrupted. 

"Why would you trouble the mind of this man of God on the veryday he has been anointed and called to 

counter the False Prophet? You are being used by the evil one towreak havoc in the camp." 


To Abdullah's dismay, he noticed that some of the dissidents roseup before Tsion and gathered themselves together against him andagainst Chaim, and said, "You take too much upon you. Why do youput yourselves above the congregation?" 

Tsion slowly covered his face with his hands, fell to his knees,
and pitched forward onto the ground. Then he raised his head andsaid, "The Lord knows who are his and who is holy. For what causedo you and all those gathered here speak against the Lord? Andwhy would you murmur against Chaim?" Tsion called on two amongthe assembled and said, "Please, come to your senses and standwith me against this shortsightedness!" 

But they said, "We will not stand with you. Is it a small thingthat you have taken us from our motherland, our homes where wehad plenty, and brought us to this rocky place where all we haveto eat is bread and water, and you set yourself up as a princeover us?" 

Abdullah had never seen Tsion look so stricken. Tsion cried out 
to God, "Lord, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Ihave neither set myself over them nor demanded anything from themexcept respect for you." 

Tsion continued, "God is telling Chaim and me to separateourselves from you to save ourselves from his wrath." 

Many fell on their faces and cried out, "o God, the God of allflesh, must we die because of the sins of a few? Would you takeit out on all of us?" 

Tsion spoke to all the assembled and said, "Unless you 


agree with these, it would do well for you to depart from thepresence of these wicked men, lest you be consumed in all theirsins. From this point on, let it be known that the Lord has sentme to do all these works; I do not do 

them in my own interest. If these men do what is in their mindsto do and God visits a plague of death on them, then all shallunderstand that these men have provoked the Lord." 

As soon as he finished speaking, the ground under hundreds of therebels opened and swallowed them. They went down into the pit,
screaming and wailing as the earth closed upon them, and theyperished from among the congregation. 

Thousands around them fled as they heard the mournful cries frombeneath the earth. "Run!" they said. "Run or the earth willswallow us also!" 

But Abdullah heard many grumbling and saying, 

,.,.Tsion and Micah have killed these people. We will stay withour plan of leaving from this place to hear the man who would beChrist." 

Abdullah went to comfort Tsion and Chaim, but as he drew nearthem, he heard them. "Lord," Tsion said, "we pray an atonementfor those left. Spare them your wrath so that we may yet reachthem with your truth." 

By now Chang was bold. Not only was he tapped in to GCNN tomonitor the great debate between Tsion and Leon, but he was alsoprepared to override New Babylon 


control. He was so tired of hearing the advertisements for Leon'sspecial envoys and their "Miracle Fairs" that when he noticedTsion was speaking to the assembled at Petra just before thedebate was to begin, he patched him through and put him on theair early. 

Tsion was telling the several hundred closest to him that theyshould repent of their plan to leave Petra and go into thewilderness to hear the charlatan who claimed to be Christ. Once 
Chang had Tsion on the air, he switched to Carpathia's office forthe expected outrage. 

Tsion was saying, "I would ask that all pray during the broadcastthat the Lord give me his wisdom and his words. And as for youwho still plan to venture away from this safe place, let me pleadwith you one more time not to do it, not to make yourselfvulnerable to the evil one. Let the Global Community and theirAntichrist and his False Prophet make ridiculous claims aboutfake miracle workers. Do not fall into their trap." 

Carpathia shrieked, "What are we doing? We want these people tocome and to hear and to be persuaded! Get him off the air!" 

Tsion said, "Messiah himself warned his disciples of this verything. He told them, `Many false prophets shall rise, and shalldeceive many. And because iniquity shall abound, the love of manyshall wax cold. But he who endures to the end, he shall be saved.
And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the worldfor a wit iess unto all nations. 

"`If any man says to you, "Lo, here is Christ," believe it not.
For there shall arise false Christs and false prophets, 


and they shall show great signs and wonders so much so that if itwere possible, they would deceive even you. If they say to you, "
Behold, he is in the desert," do not go. "Behold, he is in thesecret chambers," believe it not."' 

Abdullah stood in the midst of the million or so in Petra,
thrilled to see that Tsion was already on the air and that he wasspeaking against the thousands of false Christs springing upeverywhere. They claimed power from Carpathia himself and fromthe leader of Carpathianism, the Reverend Fortunato. They taughtheresy, and yet multitudes were taken in by them. 

Resounding off the rock walls, a woman's voice came from NewBabylon GCNN control. "Dr. Ben Judah, please stand by as weswitch to our studios, where the Most High Reverend FatherFortunato waits to engage you in respectful debate." 

"Thank you, ma'am," Tsion said, "but rather than stand by, as youflip your switches and do whatever it is you have to do to makethis work, let me begin by saying that I do not recognize Mr.
Fortunato as most high anything, let alone reverend or father." 

Fortunato appeared on the split screen in one of his elaborateoutfits, all robed and hatted and vested in velvet and piping. Hewas behind an ornately carved pulpit, but it was clear he wasseated. His smile looked starkly genuine. 

"Greetings, Dr. Ben Judah, my esteemed opponent. 

I heard some of that and may I say I regret that you have 



characteristically chosen to begin what has been intended as acordial debate with a vicious character attack. I shall not lower 
myself to this and wish only to pass along my welcome and bestwishes." 

He paused, and Tsion did not respond. After a few seconds'silence, Tsion said, "Is it my turn, then? Shall I open bystating the case for Jesus as the Christ, the Messiah, the Son ofthe living " 

"No!" It was the moderator, the woman from central. "That wasmerely a welcome, and if you choose to ignore it, we shallbegin." 

"May I ask a question, then," Tsion said, "if we choose to be soformal? Is one of the ground rules that the moderator ispermitted to editorialize about the statements from this end ofthe argument? Such as concluding that my ignoring a greeting froman enemy was rude?" 

"May we begin, sir?" she said. "The Reverend Fortunato has thefloor." 

"My premise is simple," Leon began, looking directly into thelens. Abdullah was rattled. He had always considered Fortunato abit of a buffoon. But the man on the screen, though Abdullah knewbetter, seemed so warm and kind and loving that it had to givehim credibility among the uninformed. 

"I proclaim Nicolae Carpathia, risen from the dead, as the onetrue god, worthy of worship, and the savior of mankind," Leonsaid. "He is the one who surfaced at the time of the greatestcalamity in the history of the world and has pulled together theglobal community in peace 

_ 


and harmony and love. You claim Jesus of Nazareth as both the Sonof God and one with God, which makes no sense and cannot beproven. This leaves you and your followers worshiping a man whowas no doubt very spiritual, very bright, perhaps enlightened,
but who is now dead. If he were alive and as all powerful as yousay, I challenge him to strike me dead where I sit." 

"Do it, Lord," Abdullah prayed. "Oh, God, show yourself rightnow." 

"Hail, Carpathia," Leon said, still smiling, "our lord and risenking." 

Leon looked as if he were about to continue, but Tsion took over.
"I trust you will spare us the rest of the hymn written by andabout the egomaniac who murders those who disagree with him. Iraise up Jesus the Christ, the Messiah, fully God and fully man,
born of a virgin, the perfect lamb who was worthy to be slain forthe sins of the whole world. If he is but a man, his sacrificialdeath was only human and we who believe in him would be lost. 

"But Scripture proves him to be all that he claimed to be. Hisbirth was foretold hundreds, yea, thousands of years before itwas fulfilled in every minute detail. He himself fulfills atleast separate and distinct prophecies that prove he is theMessiah. 

"The uniqueness and genius of Christianity is that the VirginBirth allowed for the only begotten son of God to identify withhuman beings without surrendering his godly, holy nature. Thus hecould die for the sins of the whole world. His Father's 
resurrecting him from the 

dead three days later proves that God was satisfied with hissacrifice for our sins. 


"Not only that, but I have discovered, in my exhaustive study ofthe Scriptures, more than prophecies by Jesus himself in thefour Gospels alone. Many have already been literally fulfilled,
guaranteeing that those that relate to still future events willalso be literally fulfilled. Only God himself could write historyin advance incredible evidence of the deity of Jesus Christ andthe supernatural nature of God." 

Fortunato countered, "But we know our king and potentate arosefrom the dead, because we saw it with our own eyes. If there isone anywhere on this earth who saw Jesus resurrected, let himspeak now or forever hold his peace. Where is he? Where is thisSon of God, this man of miracles, this king, this Savior ofmankind? If your Jesus is who you say he is, why are you hidingin the desert and living on bread and water? 

"The god of this world lives in a palace and provides good giftsto all those who worship him." 

Tsion challenged Leon to admit to the number of deaths byguillotine, that ground troops and weapons of war were swallowedup by the earth outside Petra, that two incendiary bombs and adeadly missile had struck Petra with full force, yet no one hadbeen injured and no structure jeopardized. "Will you not alsoadmit that Global Community Security and IntelligencePeacekeeping forces have spent millions of Nicks on attacking alltraffic in and out of this place, and not one plane, flier, orvolunteer has been scratched?"

 Leon lauded Carpathia for the rebuilding effort around theworld and added, "Those who die by the blade choose this forthemselves. Nicolae is not willing that any should perish butthat all should be loyal and committed to him." 


"But, sir, the population has been cut to half what it once was,
the seas are dead from the curse of blood prophesied in the Bibleand sent by God. Yet the believers-his children, at least theones who have survived the murderous persecution of the man youwould enthrone as god are provided water and food from heaven,
not just here, but in many areas around the world." 

Leon remained calm and persuasive, soldiering on, praisingNicolae. At one point he disparaged "disloyal Jews, of whom youare one, Dr. Ben-Judah." 

"You say it pejoratively, Mr. Fortunato, and yet I wear the titleas a badge of honor. I am humbled beyond measure to be one ofGod's chosen people. Indeed, the entire Bible is testament to hisplan for us for the ages, and it is being played out for thewhole world to see even as we speak." 

"But are you not the ones who killed Jesus?" Fortunato said,
grinning as if he had parried the killing dagger. 

"On the contrary," Tsion said. "Jesus himself was a Jew, as youwell know. And the fact is that the actual killing of Christ wasat the hands of Gentiles. He stood before a Gentile judge, andGentile soldiers put him on the cross. 

"Oh, there was an offense against him on the part of 

Israel that the nation and her people must bear. In the OldTestament book of Zechariah, chapter , verse prophesies that Godwill `pour upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants ofJerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplications; and theyshall look unto me whom they have pierced, and they shall mournfor him.' 


"Israel must confess a specific national sin against the Messiahbefore we will be blessed. In Hosea :, God says he will `go andreturn to my place, till they acknowledge their offense, and seekmy face; in their affliction they will seek me earnestly.' 

"The offense? Rejecting the messiahship of Jesus. We repent ofthat by pleading for his return. He will come yet again and setup his earthly kingdom, and not only I but also the word of Goditself predicts the doom of the evil ruler of this world whenthat kingdom is established. " 

"Well," Leon said, "thank you for that fascinating historylesson. But I rejoice that my lord and king is alive and well,
and I see him and speak with him every day. Thank you for being aquick and worthy opponent." 

"You call me that and yet never answer the claims and charges Ihave made," Tsion said. 

"And," Leon continued, "I would like to greet the many citizensof the Global Community who reside with you temporarily andinvite them to enjoy the benefits and privileges of the outsideworld. I trust many will join one of our prophets and teachersand workers of miracles when he ministers in your area less thanan hour from nova. He will " 

Tsion interrupted, "The Scriptures tell us that many deceiversare entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ iscome in the flesh. Such a one is a deceiver and an antichrist." 

"If you'll allow me to finish, sir " 

"whoever abides not in the doctrine of Christ, has not God. Hewho abides in the doctrine of Christ, he has both the Father andthe Son. If any come to you and bring not this doctrine, do not 


receive him into your house, neither bid him Godspeed, for he whobids Godspeed partakes of his evil deeds." 

"All right then, you've worked in all your tiresome Bible verses.
I shall be content to merely thank you and " 

"For as long as you have me on international television, Mr.
Fortunato, I feel obligated to preach the gospel of Christ and tospeak forth the words of Scripture. The Bible says the word shallnot return void, and so I would like to quote " 

But he was cut off the air, and much of the multitude at Petracheered and applauded his presentation. A remaining rebelliousfaction, however, even after hearing all that Dr. Ben Judah said,
began its exit. "We shall return," many of them shouted whenconfronted by the majority, who chanted and pleaded with them notto go. 

Tsion cried out, " `Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversarythe devil walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he maydevour."' 

"There is amnesty for us!" one said. "No one pays for missing thenark of loyalty deadline, now so long past!" 

Abdullah could not make it compute. Surely these had to be amongthose who waited too long to consider the claims of Christ. Theirhearts had to have been hardened, because there was no logic intheir behavior. 

He hurried back to his quarters and took binoculars that had beendelivered with the last shipment from the Co op. He climbed againto a high place to watch for their emergence from the Siq andtheir two mile walk to where the Global Community had alreadyerected a platform. 


 blank 

Chapter 

MAC HAD learned to ignore the warnings of the GC when he flewinto restricted airspace over the Negev. They c me on the radio,
they sent reconnaissance plane ,they even tried to crowd him outof the sky. Often the threatening GC planes flew close enough toreveal the pilots' faces. The first few times, Mac recalled, theylooked determined. Later, when their mounted rifles missed theirtargets without explanation, they looked scared. When their heatseeking missiles found their targets but seemed to pass through,
the GC had backed off so as not to become targets themselves. 

Today they went through all their typical machinations: the radiowarning, the fly alongside, the shooting, the missiles. When Maccould see the pilots, they looked bored or at best resigned. Theyseemed as puzzled as the 

Co op pilots why the GC continued to waste such expensiveequipment, munitions, and warheads. 

Mac looked at Albie and they shook their heads. "Another day,
another deliverance," Albie said. 

"I'll never take it for granted," Mac said. "I'm glad it doesn'thinge on clean living." 

"You live clean enough," Albie said. 

"Not by any virtue of my own, friend." 


As they went screaming over the desert to the Petra landingstrip, Mac looked for the oversize plane Chang had appropriatedfrom New Babylon. It sat at the end of the runway, big and plainas day. "How do you figure that?" Mac said. "God must be blindingthese guys. You can see it from a mile away, maybe more." 

"Look there," Albie said. 

Almost directly below them was a serpentine line of severalhundred exiting the mile long Siq that led into and out of Petra.
They were headed for the concertlike setup in the middle of thedesert. As Mac focused on the airstrip and began his descent, hesaw the chopper hopping from inside Petra to the end of therunway from where Abdullah would ferry them in. 

"You think Smitty would want to get a closer look at this deal?"
Albie said. 

"Why? Would you?" 

"Sure ." 

"I'm game. We protected that far out?" 

"In the air we are. Might be takin' a chance on foot." 

"Let's go in the copter." 

"This is an answer to prayer," Abdullah said a few minutes later.
"I so want to see what is going on out there." 

"It's a risk though, Smitty," Mac said. "You've got a pretty goodcover, lookin' like you belong out here. Albie and I have had ourcovers blown, and we got no disguises, no aliases, no fake marks,
no nothin'. You'd better decide if we're worth being seen with." 


Abdullah could not hide a smile. 


"You rascal," Mac said, grinning. "I set myself up for a shot
there, didn't I? And you almost took it." 
"I was not about to shoot you, Mac." 
",Verbally you were. You sure were." 
"I guess I have decided I would rather not be seen with you when


we get back to Petra." 
"Cute. But seriously now . . . " 
"I believe God will protect us. We should stick together, look


official, but not make it plain that we do not have marks." 


"Your turban covers you, and we've got caps. You think that's
enough? Should we be armed?" 
"I have no idea how many GC will be there," Albie said, "but I'm


guessing once we get there we're going to be vulnerable. Guns


won't help is what I guess I'm saying. " 
Abdullah rubbed his forehead. "We should stay in the chopper. If
we can see and hear from there." 


"And if we're approached?" 
"You speak Texan at them and they will be puzzled long enough for
me to lift off." 


"Oh, you're hot today, Smitty." 


"Who would want to come close to a helicopter when the blades areturning?" 


Abdullah studied his friends. It was clear they were as curiousas he was. 

"Should we check in with someone?" Mac said. 

"Who?" Abdullah said. "Your mommy?" 

Mac nodded, conceding that Abdullah was developing a sense ofhumor, but not rewarding him with more than that. "Rayford's inthe air somewhere. It's on us. What're we gonna do?" 

"I'm in," Albie said. 

Abdullah nodded. 

Mac climbed in the back of the chopper. Abdullah slid in behindthe controls. Albie sat next to him. 

When they were in the air, Abdullah shouted over the din, "Wecould check with Chang. Have him put something in the computer." 

Neither responded, so Abdullah abandoned the idea. He wondered ifthey were being foolish. Down deep he knew they were. But hecould not stop himself from going. 

It was clear to Mac that this show was set up exclusively for therebels from Petra. He tried to get out of Abdullah why anybodywould want to leave the safety of that city, but it was anunanswerable rhetorical question. 

Abdullah was clearly taking his time, but the chopper 

quickly overtook the walking masses and set down about a hundredfeet from the stage, whipping up a cloud of 


dust that a light breeze carried directly to the people on theplatform. They stared at the chopper. 

Mac saw several armed GC looking and talking among themselves.
One approached, a young, thickchested man who would have beenstocky even without the bulletproof vest that became apparent ashe drew near. Abdullah had shut down and the blade had juststopped. 

"Just sit here and look at him," Mac said. "Make him make thefirst move." 

Vest Chest stood with his weapon dangling, totallynonthreatening, but he looked expectantly at Albie, who sat inthe second seat by the door. "You going to open 

up?" the young man said. 

"Not if we don't have to," Albie said. "The AC still has thisthing cooled." 

"You have to," the Peacekeeper said. 

Albie looked back at Mac. Mac nodded. Albie opened the door. 

Mac leaned forward and spoke in a gruff voice, "You don't want tobe too close to this machine, son! Engine's still hot, and she'sbeen known to spit some oil. And we might want to fire her upagain, just for a little air." 

"hat's your business here?" 

"Same as yours. Security. Monitoring. Now I'm going to have toask you to back away from the craft." 

It was gutsy, but after what Mac had been through the last year,
to him it was like a walk in the park. If the guy 


wanted to get into a contest of wills, Mac would stall him longenough for Smitty to get the engine roaring again, and they wouldbe out of there. Of course, even small weapons fire could bringdown a chopper from close range, but maybe planting in his mindabout the spitting of hot oil would give the GC pause. 

Mac's ruse worked. The man just nodded and backed off. 

"Start 'er up, Smitty," Mac said. "Got to give him a reason toconcede." 

The dust blew again. Abdullah shut down quickly. The GC returned.
Mac took the offensive. He leaned past Albie and opened the doorhimself. "Don't worry," he said, "that's the last time we do thattill we leave. We don't want to get people dusty or keep 'em fromhearin' or anything, okay?" 

",Just what I was going to say, sir." 

Mac gave him an index finger salute, anal the people beganshowing up, already looking exhausted. 

It took only a few minutes for the crowd to gather, and itappeared that an otherwise normal looking guy, whom Mac thoughtlooked like a younger version of Leon Fortunato, grabbed themicrophone. He wore white shoes, white slacks, a white shirt, andsounded like a motivational speaker, all peppy and crisp. He saidhe was the whole show announcer, performer, everything. 

"But I'm not typical. No, folks. People have called me a type ofChrist. Well, you be the judge. All I can tell you is that I amnot from here. That was not a 

joke. I am not even from this world. There's no music today, no 


dancing girls, just me, a wonder worker. I come under theauthority of the risen lord, Nicolae Carpathia, and I have beenimbued with power from him. 

"If you are skeptical, let me ask you to look at the sky. I knowthe sun is still high and hot and bright, but would you agreewith me that there are no clouds? None. Not one. Anyone see oneanywhere? On the distant horizon? Forming somewhere in the greatbeyond? Shade your eyes, that's all right. But do me the favor ofremoving your sunglasses, those of you who have them. You'resquinting, and that's all right. Some of you are frowning, butyou won't be in a moment. 

"Would you like a nice cloud? Something to block the sun for justan instant? I can provide one. You're skeptical, I can tell.
Don't look at me; you'll miss it. You'll think it was a trick.
But what do you call that?" 

A shadow fell over the crowd. Even the GC gawked at the sky.
Abdullah leaned over. Albie bent forward. Mac turned his bodybetween them and looked up. A thick, white cloud blotted out thesun. The people oohed and aahed. 

"How does he do that?" Abdullah said. 

"He already told you," Mac said. "Power from Nicolae." 

"Too quick?" the miracle worker said. "Did the sudden change intemperature chill you, even out here in the desert? Maybe that'senough shade for the moment, hmm ? " 

The cloud disappeared. It didn't move, fade, or dissipate. It wasthere, and then it was gone. 


"How about half shade, but still enough of the sun coming throughto keep you warm?" It was instantaneous. 

A woman near the stage dropped to her knees and began worshipingthe man. 

"Oh, ma'am, thank you ever so kindly. But what is the cliche ?
You have seen nothing yet. How about this microphone stand? Asolid steel base, long two piece shaft, separate microphone andcord, attached at the top. Anyone want to come up and prove it iswhat I say it is?" 

An older man limped up the steps to the platform. He felt themike and stand and then rapped on the upper shaft, causingthudding noises through the sound system. "Oops, look at that!"
Miracle Man said. And the mike stand and mike had been replacedby a snake that led from his hand all the way to the transformerbox. 

The people recoiled and some cried out, but as quickly as it hadappeared, the snake disappeared and the mike and stand were asbefore. 

"Magic tricks? You know better. Had trouble getting enough waterlately? Or shall we believe the stories coming from inside Petra?
Think a spring in there was an act of God? Then what does thatmake me?" 

He pointed into the middle of the crowd, and a spring gushed fromthe ground, splashing over their heads. "Cool, crisp, andrefreshing, no?" he said. "Enjoy! Go ahead!" And they did. 

"Hungry? Tired of the fare in your new home? How about a basketof real bread, warm and chewy and more than enough for all?" 

He reached behind him and brought out a wicker basket with alinen napkin in it. Five popover sized chunks of bread, warm andgolden brown, were piled in it. "Start that around. Here you go. 


Sure, take one. No, a whole one! Take two if you'd like. There'smore where that came from." 

The basket passed from hand to hand and everyone took at leastone piece, several two, and yet the basket was never depleted. 

"Who am I? Who do you say that I am? I am a disciple of theliving lord, Potentate Carpathia. Have I persuaded you that he isall powerful? His patience has run out with you people, however.
He would like me to administer the mark of loyalty to you, whichI can do without technology. You don't doubt me anymore, do you?
" 

People shook their heads. "Who will be first? I will do foursimultaneously. You, you, you, and you. Ask your friends whatthey see." 

Even Mac could see that they had Carpathia's mark on theirforeheads. 

"More? Yes, raise your hands. Now those of you who have yourhands raised right now, hear me. No, no new ones. Hands down ifyou did not have them up when I said that. Why have you waitedso long? What was the hold up?The one I serve wants me to slayyou, and your"re dead." 

More than a hundred dropped to the desert floor, 

causing the rest to shriek and cry out. 

"Silence! You do not think I could slay the lot of you? If I canslay them, can I not also raise them? These six, right up here,
arise ! " 

The six stood as if they had just awakened. They lookedembarrassed, as if they didn't know why they had been on the 


ground. 

"Think they were merely sleeping? in a trance? All right, they'redead again." They dropped again. "Now if you know them, checktheir vital signs." 

He waited. "No breath, no pulse, correct? Let that be a lesson tothose who remain. You see that, in the distance? Yes, there. Thelittle cloud of dust, what appears to be tumbleweed rolling thisway? Those are vipers of the deadliest sort. They are coming foryou." 

Some turned and began to run, but they froze in place. 

"No, no. Surely you do not think escape is possible from one whocan create a cloud to cover the sun? If you want the mark ofloyalty, raise your hand now and receive it." 

The rest of the crowd raised their hands, frantic. "But more ofyou should die before the vipers get here." About three dozenkeeled over. 

"Why do the vipers keep coming?" a woman cried. "We have allobeyed! We have all taken the mark!" 

"The vipers are wise, that is all," he said. "They know who wasserious and loyal and who acted only out of fear for theirlives." 

The spring turned to blood, and the people near it backed away. 

"Fools!" he said. "You're all fools! Do you think a god likeNicolae Carpathia wants you as his subjects? No! He wants youdead and away from the clutches of his enemies. You are free torun now, and it is entertaining to me to see you run as fast andas frantically as you can. But let me warn you. You will notoutrun the vipers. You will not reach Petra in time to saveyourselves. Your bodies will lie bloated and baking in the sun 


until the birds have their way with your flesh. For as I leave, Itake with me the shade I provided." 

The people burst from the scene, screaming and staggering madlyin the sand toward Petra. The GC guards seemed apoplectic andstared as the vipers changed course to chase down the people. Thespring dried up, the cloud disappeared, and dozens of chunks ofbread lay in the sand. 

Mac looked at Albie and Smitty and they all shook their heads,
trembling. Suddenly the wonder worker stood directly in front ofthe chopper. Though he did not open his mouth, Mac heard him asif he were inside the craft. "I know who you are. I know you byname. Your god is weak and your faith a sham, and your time islimited. You shall surely die." 

Mac had difficulty finding his voice. "Let's go," he croaked, andAbdullah started the engines. The cloud of sand blew up and thenaway, and as Smitty lifted off, Mac looked down to see nothingbut a long stretch of undisturbed sand, dotted only by the deadwho had 

dropped at the site. No GC. No miracle man. No platform. Nobread. No vehicles. 

What about the snakes? He didn't see them either. But stretched 
for a quarter mile were the rest of the 

people, still and flat and grotesque on the desert floor, limbssplayed. 

Tsion was troubled in his spirit by a deep sense of foreboding.
He knew he would not be able to shepherd all the way to theGlorious Appearing every person who 

had arrived in Petra. And yet he believed that when they had seen 


the mighty and miraculous hand of God, many of the undecidedwould be persuaded. 

Many had been; of that there was no doubt. That was what Chaimand the other elders were saying as Tsion despaired, deep in oneof the caves. It was as if the Lord had told him that the rebels 
would not be returning not any of them. But he didn't know if Godwould slay them, as he did in the Korah rebellion in the days ofMoses, or whether Antichrist would kill them after luring theminto the desert with his great 

deception. 

He looked up when Naomi hurried in from the technology andcommunications center and went directly to her father. She stolea glance at Tsion as she whispered in her father's ear, and whenTsion saw the slump of his shoulders and the sad shaking of hishead, he knew. 

The young woman left, and her father made his way 

up to Chaim. Tsion leaned over. "Tell us both. I must know ofthis eventually anyway." 

"But, sir," Naomi's father said, "could you not be spared thetotality of this until even one day after your triumph over theFalse Prophet? Why must your rejoicing be tempered?" 

"I am not rejoicing, my friend. I was unable to keep the FalseProphet from enticing the rebels to go their own way, no matterwhat I did or said. Tell me the whole of it. Spare me nothing." 

"Three of your friends from the Tribulation Force wereeyewitnesses and are just now returning. They request a moment 


with you." 

Tsion stood. "Of course! Where are they?" 

"On their way from the helipad." 

As he and Chaim neared the entrance to the cave, Mac, Albie, andAbdullah were coming in. They all embraced. The elders maintaineda respectful distance as the five huddled and Mac told the story. 

"You should not have attended," Tsion said sadly. 

"If we'd known what we were gonna see, we wouldn't have," Macsaid. "But you know, sometimes us pilot types are as curious aslittle boys. This just mighta cured us." 

"That man was not even human," Tsion said. "Surely he was ademonic apparition. Revelation says that when Satan, who willdeceive the whole world, was cast down from heaven to earth, `hisangels were cast out with him.' And of course it is no surprisethat these people were not even recruited for the Global Commu 

nity. John : says Satan wants only to steal and to kill and todestroy." 

"I have a question, Dr. Ben Judah," Albie said. " Is it okay notto like this? I mean, everybody's outraged about what happened,
but just when I think I have an idea what God might be up to, helets something like this happen, and I don't understand him atall." 

"Do not feel bad about that, my brother, unless your questioningof him makes you doubt hint. He is in control. His ways are notour ways, and he sees a big picture we will not even be able tofathom this side of heaven. I too am distraught. I had so wishedthat some of these might run back to us, pleading that we 


intercede for them before God, the way the wayward children ofIsrael did in Old Testament times. I would have loved to pray foratonement for them or to hold up an image of a bronze snake sothat those bitten could look upon it and be healed. 

"But God is doing his winnowing work. He is cleansing the earthof his enemies, and he is allowing the undecided to face theconsequences of their procrastination. You know as well as I dothat no one in his right mind should choose against the God whocan protect them against weapons of mass destruction. But herewere these fools, venturing out into the desert, outside of God'sblanket of protection, and there they lie. As the apostle Paulput it, `O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom andknowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and hisways past finding out! For who hash known the mind of the Lord?
Or who hath 

been his counselor? . . . For of him, and through him, and tohim, are all things to whom be glory for ever."' 

Mac was up before dawn, eager to get going. But as he waited forAlbie and Abdullah, he was aware of a buzz throughout Petra. Anannouncement was going out, through an elaborate word of mouthsystem, that Tsion and Chaim were calling for everyone toassemble after they had eaten their morning manna. 

Abdullah and Albie ate quickly and packed, joining Mac with themillion others before the three of them were to lift off. 

Chaim addressed the crowd first. "Tsion believes the Lord has 
told him that no more indecision reigns in the camp. You mayconfirm that by looking about you. Is there anyone in this placewithout the mark of the believer? Anyone anywhere? We will notpressure or condemn you. This is just for our information." 


Mac made a cursory pan of the people within his vision, butmostly he watched Tsion and Chaim, who waited more than tenminutes to be sure. 

Then Tsion stepped forward. "The prophet Isaiah,"he said,
"predicted taht 'it shall come to pass in the day that the remantof Israel, and such as have escaped of the house of Jacob, willnever again depend on him who defeated them, buyt will depend onthe Lordm the Holy One of Israel, in truth. "'The remant will 
retur, the remnant of Jacob, to 

the Mighty God. For though your people, O Israel, be as the sandof the sea, a remnant of them will return . . . .' And of theevil ruler of this world who has tormented you, Isaiah saysfurther, `It shall come to pass in that day that his burden willbe taken away from your shoulder, and his yoke from your neck,
and the yoke will be destroyed.' Praise the God of Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob. 

"The prophet Zechariah quoted our Lord God himself, speaking ofthe land of Israel, that `two thirds of it shall be cut off anddie, but one third shall be left in it. I will bring the onethird through the fire, will refine them as silver is refined,
and test them as gold is tested. They will call on My name and Iwill answer them. I will say, "This is My people." And each onewill say, "The Lord is my God."' 

"My dear friends, you remnant of Israel, this is in accord withthe clear teaching of Ezekiel, chapter , where our barren nationis seen in the last days to be a valley of dry bones, referred toby the Lord himself as `the whole house of Israel. They indeedsay, "Our bones are dry, our hope is lost, and we ourselves arecut off!"' 

"But then, dear ones, God said to Ezekiel, `Therefore prophesyand say to them, "Thus says the Lord God: `Behold, O My people, Iwill open your graves and cause you to come up from your graves,
and bring you into the land of Israel .... I will put My Spiritin you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own 


land. Then you shall know that I, the Lord, have spoken it andperformed it.""" 

It had been a long time since Rayford had done such hard physicallabor. Even at Mizpe Ramon, the building of the airstrip forOperation Eagle had largely been done under his supervision butby others with heavy equipment. He was in charge of thisoperation too, but there was no getting around that every pair ofhands was crucial. 

Lionel Whalum had landed almost without incident at Gobernador 
Gregores. The only trouble was that the main runway had beendestroyed during the war, and the Co op had rebuilt it byduplicating it a hundred feet parallel to the original. The GCwere unaware of the rebuilding or of the huge encampment ofunderground believers who had been harvesting wheat and tradingthrough the Co op ever since. 

But when the destroyed runway was discarded, which Rayford's maincontact there Luis Arturo later told him had taken weeks to haul 
away, what was left was a smooth, dark depression in the ground.
From the air, it looked as if the runway was still there. 

Luis had spent his high school and college years in the UnitedStates and spoke fluent, though heavily accented, English. He hadhad enough exposure to campus ministry groups that when hereturned to Argentina and suffered through the disappearances, heknew exactly what had happened. He and some friends fromchildhood raced to their little Catholic church, where hardlyanyone was left. Their favorite priest and catechism teacher weregone too. But from literature they found in the library, 


they learned how to trust Christ personally. Soon they were thenucleus of the new body of believers in that area. 

Luis proved to be an earnest, fast talking man, and while he tookespecially to Ree Woo and was friendly and cordial to everyone,
his top priority was getting the plane loaded and these men ontheir way again. "All we hear are rumors that the GC is pollutingthe Chico and that they are onto us," he said. "I have manyreasons to believe that is only the talk of the paranoid, but wecannot take chances. The time grows short anyway, so let's move." 

He seemed to like Ree so much because, though the South Koreanwas the youngest and smallest member of Rayford's crew, with theexception of George Sebastian he proved to be in the best shapeof everyone Americans and Argentineans combined. 

Big George's reputation preceded him, and while he worked,
lifting heavy sacks of wheat aboard the plane by himself, many ofthe South Americans tried to get him to talk about hisimprisonment in Greece and his escape. 

Rayford noticed that George tried to downplay it. "I overpowereda woman half my size." 

"But she was armed, no? And she had killed people?" 

"Well, we couldn't let her keep doing that, could we?" 

Rayford worked mostly alongside Lionel, each of them able tohandle one sack of wheat at a time. Ree helped too, but he wasyoung and fast and wouldn't feel it in the morning like Ray andLionel would. 

After two solid days' work, thanks to hydraulic lift loaders and 


six aluminum pallets that held up to thirty thousand pounds each,
the wheat was nearly loaded and the plane partially full whenLuis came running. "Senor Steele, to the tower with me, quick. Ihave field glasses." 

Rayford followed the young man to a new, wooden, two story towerthat had been designed to blend into the landscape. Aircraft hadto watch for it, but nosy types unaware of it might not see it atall. 

Rayford had to catch his breath at the top of the stairs, butwhen he was ready, Lufs passed him the binocs and pointed intothe distance. It took Rayford a few seconds to adjust the lenses,
but what he saw made him wonder if they were already too late andtheir work had been wasted.

 blank 

Chapter 

THOUGH IT wasn't a long flight from Petra to India, Mac was soundasleep when Albie put the cargo plane down at Babatpur. With thedelay at Petra, losing a couple of hours to time zones, and thecumbersome plane, it was the middle of the night when theyarrived. 

It took Mac a moment to get his bearings, but within seconds heand Abdullah and Albie were rushed from 

the plane by the man known only as Bihari. Serious and nononsense, he said, "Hurry, please. We remain about a hundredmiles north of the Rihand Dam." 

"A hundred miles? " Mac said. "How we gettin' this water back to 


the plane?" 

"Trucks! " 

"The GC asleep over here, or what?" 

"The GC, my friend, enjoy the drinking water." 

Bihari averaged more than seventy miles an hour in 

a minivan that had no business going that fast on roads that maynever have seen that speed before especially in the dead ofnight. Ninety minutes later, in a swirling cloud of dust, heswung into a clearing near a small processing plant and showedMac and the others towering skids of bottled water that looked asif they would fill two large trucks. 

"Where's the rest of it?" Mac said. "We got us a big, big plane." 

"I wondered if you would notice," Bihari said. "Did you not hearme honk at passing traffic on the way?" 

"Occasionally, I guess." 

"All but two trucks are already on their way to the plane. Whenwe heard you were in the air, we got started. The prospect ofreal wheat to eat has motivated all of us. With you gentlemen andforklifts, wore can load the last two trucks by dawn and be onour way." 

A few minutes later, as Mac backed a forklift toward a stack ofskids, he passed Albie. "These people make me feel like a lazyold fool," he said. "Our job is cushy compared to theirs." 

"They wouldn't want to worry about the missiles and bullets,"
Albie said. "They get away with this by supplying the GC with a 


little water?" 

Bihari interrupted the last of the loading by waving his handsover his head at Mac. "Will your people be discouraged by asetback?" he said. 

"Depends," Mac said. "We still gonna be able to take off and getoutta here?" 

"Yes, but I believe we are doomed." 

"That wouldn't make our day. What's the trouble?" 

"We will drive by the dam on our way back to the airport. It is a
little out of the way, but you must see it." 
"I've seen dams before. Somethin' wrong with yours?" 
"My people tell me the next curse from the Lord has fallen. " 
"Uh oh. " 
"I cannot imagine what blood looks like, being forced through the


control doors of a dam." 


"Me neither," Mac said. "How's your water inventory, minus what
we're takin' ? " 
"Maybe six months. But the GC will surely raid us when they


discover we no longer have sources either." 
"They know where you are?" 
"They have to have an idea. It will not take them long " 
"Hidin' this place oughta be your top priority. " 



The sun was going down, and yet heat still shimmered off theplains of Argentina. Rayford tried to hold the binoculars stillenough to make out what all the commotion was about. It couldhave been anything, but none of the options hit him as positive.
There were an awful lot of people out there, that was sure. Buthe couldn't quite tell if they were military, GC, MoraleMonitors, peasants, people from the city, or what. 

He handed the glasses back to Lufs. "Do we just get in the air?
Or had we better check this out?" 

"You know what I think." 

"Do we go armed? How many go with us?" 

Luis shook his head. "How about I supply the vehicle, and yousupply the ideas?" 

"Fair enough," Rayford said. "Sebastian and I will go. And wewill be armed but not on the offensive. We're just seeing what'sgoing on and keeping you and yours out of it. " 

As they descended from the tower, Luis said, "Oh, dear Lord, Ipray it hasn't already happened." 

"what's that?" 

"Do you smell that, Captain Steele?" 

Rayford sniffed the air. Blood. 

Mac was preoccupied on the drive from the processing plant. Wouldthe huge shipment of wheat have to be trucked all the way downhere too? Did they have enough trucks? And where would they storeit? 


On the one hand he worried about it, and on the other he was gladit wasn't his problem. Better thinkers than he had put this dealtogether. It was their concern. 

When Bihari stopped at the dam, the other loaded truck pulled upbehind. At first no one disembarked. Then all four of them did. 

They just stood and watched for a minute. Two of the great doorsin the wall of the dam were open, both disgorging huge arcs ofliquid, splashing into a ravine and sweeping past them. Blood wasso much thicker 

than water that it sounded and acted differently. It smelledawful, and Mac found it frightening somehow. It reminded him of anightmare and chilled him. 

A man stood several hundred yards from the dam, downstream fromthe rushing blood. He looked familiar. "Who is that?" Mac said,
pointing. 

"Who is who?" Albie said. 

Mac turned him the right direction and pointed. 

"I don't see so well this time of the morning, Mac. Who do yousee?" 

"No one sees that man by the rock down there? He's close to theriver." 

No one said anything. 

"I'm going to check him out. He's looking right at us! Waving usdown there!" 

"I don't see him, Mac. Maybe this is one of your cowboymarriages." 


Mac cocked his head at Abdullah. "One of my what?" 

"One of those things you cowpokes see in the desert when you'rethirsty. It looks like water but it's just a cactus or something.
A marriage." 

Albie threw back his head and laughed. "I grew up ten thousandmiles from Texas and I know that one! It's a mirage, Smitty. Amirage." 

"Well, this ain't a marriage or a mirage," Mac said. "I'll beright back." 

He drew within a hundred yards of the man, who watched him allthe way. "If you're going to come," the man said, "why not bringan empty bottle?" 

"what do I want a bottle of blood for? Anyway, I don't think Ihave an empty one." 

"Empty one and bring it." 

Mac turned around, as if it was the roost normal request and hehad no choice. 

As he hurried back, Abdullah said, "So what was it, pod'ner? Amarriage?" 

"Very funny, camel jockey." 

Mac pulled a bottle from one of the skids, drank half of it onhis way back, then poured out the rest. 


"Hey!" Bihari called, "that stuff's as valuable as wheat, youknow." 

Mac watched his footing as he reached the rushing crimson tide.
"You get around, don't you, Michael?" he said. "You omnipresentor something?" 

"You know better than that, Cleburn," Michael said. "Like you, Iam on assignment." 

"And coincidentally in the same part of the world as me. I nevergot to thank you for " 

Michael held up a hand to silence him, then reached for thebottle. He sighed and looked to the sky. He spoke softly but withgreat passion. "Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord GodAlmighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints. Whoshall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou onlyart holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; forthy judgments are made manifest." 

Michael carefully walked among the rocks, down to the edge of therushing river. The surging blood was so loud that Mac worried hewould not be able to hear Michael if 

he spoke again. And as if he knew Mac's fear, Michael turned andbeckoned him closer. Mac hesitated. Michael was being spottedwith blood. His brown robes were speckled, as were his beard andface and hair. 

"Come," he said. 

And Mac went. 

Michael stood with one foot on a rock and the other just inchesfrom the river. He said, "Thou art righteous, o Lord, which art,
and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged thus. For theyhave shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given 


them blood to drink; for they are worthy." 

Then another voice, Mac did not know from where: "Even so, LordGod Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments." 

Michael bent low and thrust the bottle into the current The 
rushing blood pushed against his arm and soaked his sleeve andfilled the bottle. And when he drew it from the river and turned 
toward Mac, there was no blood on him His robe was dry. His facewas clean. His arm was clean. The bottle was full of pure, cleanwater. 

Michael handed it to Mac. "Drink," he said. Mac put the coldbottle to his lips and tipped it straight up. As Mac closed hiseyes and drank it all, Michael said, "Jesus said, `whosoeverdrinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst;
but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well ofwater springing up into everlasting life."' 

Mac opened his eyes and exhaled loudly. Michael was gone. 

"All due respect, sir," Sebastian said, "but you realize it'sjust you and me, a couple of guns, and a few rounds ofammunition, and we don't have a clue what we're driving into?" 

"I was hoping you'd protect me," Rayford said. "This militarystuff is fairly new to me." 

"We're not really going to take these people on, are we?" 

"I hope not, George. We're hopelessly outnumbered." 

"Sorta what I was getting at, sir." 

"Let's just play this out and see what we find." 

"Uh, hold on. Could you stop a second?" 


"You serious?" 

"Yes, sir." 

Rayford stopped and put the vehicle in park. 

"You didn't read that in some military strategy book, did you?" 

"What's that?" 

"The see what we find gambit?" 

"George, listen. Nothing is as it used to be. We improvise everyday. You're a living example of that. We have no choice here.
We've got a whole bunch of our brothers and sisters trying tosurvive out here, and now something could be threatening them. IfI went back and got all of them and armed them all, they would beno match for the GC if they decided to advance. So let's see whatthis is. We shouldn't have to get right into the middle of itbefore we know we should turn back. Use the binocs. You see armed 
GC, say the word, and we turn around. Fair enough?" 

George looked like he was thinking. "Consider this," he said.
"See over there? Over your other shoulder. There's a big group ofsomebody heading toward the gathering place. Let's go wide aroundthe back way and get into that group. They aren't military andthey aren't threatening " 

"Makes sense." 

"Always does. Make use of your resources." 

"Like your mind, you mean?" Rayf ord said. 

"Well, I wasn't going to say that." 


Mac looked around, his heart stampeding as if he'd run up amountainside. He scampered down to the rushing river of blood andplunged the bottle into the current. Blood splashed all over him,
but when he pulled the bottle out, it was pure freshwater again. 

He laughed and shouted and charged back toward Albie and Abdullahand Bihari. But they had apparently never seen Michael andquickly tired of Mac's antics. "You didn't see him! You didn't,
did you?" 

They looked at him gravely from the trucks. 

"Did you see me pour the water out? Well, did you? Bihari, youdid, 'cause you told me it was worth its weight in wheat.
Remember? Well, then where did I get this?" 

Bihari got out of the truck. "Where did you get that?" he said. 

"From that river right there! And do you see any blood on me?" 

"I don't!" 

"Still think you're doomed? The GC is going to leave you alonewhen they see what's happened to your water source. But you sendyour people and your equipment 

z 

down here like usual. God takes care of the ones he's sealed,
amen?" 

By now Albie and Abdullah had come to see as well. 

"Try a taste of this, gentlemen. You'll want to drink it all, but 


it's for sharing." 
Rayford and George found themselves in the middle of a pilgrimage
of some sort. Almost everyone else was on foot. From their


clothes they appeared to be both town and country folk, and some
peasants. "English, anyone?" George said. 
Two more times he said it, and finally a man who appeared to be


with his wife and perhaps a couple of other family members came
alongside the vehicle. "English? Yes," he said. 
"Where are we going?" George said. 
"We are going where we have been invited," the man said. 
"All of you? Invited?" 
"I do not know about the others. We were invited." 


"Who invited you?" 
"Three men. They came to the door and told us to meet them out
here and they would tell us good news. " 


"But you are not Carpathia loyalists," George said. "I see no


mark." 
"On you either, sir," the man said. "And yet you seem no more
afraid than we do." 


"You don't even seem concerned," George said. 
"The men told us not to fear." 
"why did you believe them? What gave you such confidence? " 
"They were believable. What can I say?" 



"Ask some others why they are here." 
The man spoke to another group in Spanish. Then to another. 
"We were all invited by the same men," he said. 
"And who are they?" 
"No one knows." 
"And yet you all risk your lives to be here." 
"It is as if we have no choice, sir." 
Rayford stopped and the crowd surged past him. "What does this


sound like to you, George?" 
"The same thing it sounds like to you: Ming's story. " 
"Exactly. And we'll know for sure from the first words that come


from their mouths. If the one . . . Christopher 
"Right. " 
" starts out with the gospel, and the next one predicts what's


going to happen to Babylon. . ." 
"Nahum. " 
"Right. And Caleb warns about taking the mark, well, that's all


we need to know." 


"But where's the GC, Rayford? These guys got people saved in
China, but the Peacekeepers still killed 'em." 
Both men turned in their seats to watch far the enemy. 
"Maybe God and these guys work differently in different parts of 



the world." 
Leah Rose worked in the basement of Lionel Whalum's huge home inLong Grove, Illinois. She and Hannah were making an inventory of

medical supplies and a list of what was needed at various Co oplocations. They were working with printouts from Chloe Williams. 
"I'm looking for a place that needs more than supplies, frankly,"

Leah said. 
"I hear you. Is anything more exhausting than being idle? I don't


know if I want to be in the middle of combat again, but I've got
to be somewhere I'm needed." 
"Problem is," Leah said, "Petra doesn't need medicine or nurses.


But I'd like to at least stop by there on the way to my next
assignment." 
"Hmm, really? Wonder who? I mean, wonder why?" 
"Shut up, Hannah." 
Suddenly, Leah's knees buckled and she almost fell. 


"What was that?" Hannah said. "You all right?" 
"Yeah. I don't know. I just went weak all of a sudden, but it
passed." 


But as soon as she had said that, she dropped to her knees. 
"Lea h!" 


"I'm okay. It's just it's just that I . . . oh, God, yes. I will,
Lord. Of course." 



"What? What is it?" 

"Pray with me, Hannah. We're supposed to pray for Mr. Whalum. " 

"Should I get his wife?" 

"We're supposed to do it right now. Lord," Leah said, "I don'tknow what you're impressing upon me except that Mr. Whalum needsprayer right now. We trust you, we love you, we believe in you,
and we know you are sovereign. Do whatever you have to do to keephim safe, and all those who are with him. He and Rayford andGeorge and Ree should be leaving soon, so give them whatever theyneed, protect them in whatever way they need protection, and gobefore them into India." 

"Here they come," Rayford said, pointing past the west end of thecrowd to show George the GC. They pulled up in Jeeps and vans,
maybe a hundred troops, uniformed and armed. They had bullhorns. 

While Rayford drove to the other side of the crowd and parkedwhere he could see the people, the GC, and the front of theassembly, a GC officer announced, "This is an unlawful assembly.
You are violating the law. There is no facility here foradministering the mark of loyalty, and you are so many monthspast now that you will not be allowed to rectify that oversight.
Appearing in public without the mark of loyalty is punishable bydeath at the 

hands of any law abiding citizen, but if you will disperse 

now and go directly back to your homes, we will offer a 

brief extension and allow you to take the mark within 

twenty four hours. An application site is available as 

close as Tamel Aike or Laguna Grande, both within sixty 


miles of here."


 The people did not stop, did not look, did not appear 
troubled. The GC began again. "This is your last 
warn "

 "Silence!"

 The commanding voice came from the front, from 
one of the three, and without amplification.

 "My name is Christopher, and I speak under the 
authority of Jesus Christ the Messiah and Son of the 
living God. He has determined that those of this com 
pany who receive his everlasting gospel today shall enter 
into his millennial kingdom at his glorious appearing, 
just over two years from now."

 The people began to murmur, and the GC were on 
their bullhorns again, but the horns malfunctioned and 
no one could hear them.

 "My coworkers Nahum and Caleb are here with me 
only to proclaim that which the Lord has assigned us to 
proclaim. And then God's message of salvation as found 
in his only begotten Son will be presented by one of the 


, witnesses he has raised up from the tribes of the 

children of Israel.

 "And now begone, you workers of iniquity, you ser 

vants of the evil ruler of this world. You shall come nigh 

unto these people and this place never again. Begone lest 

the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ strike you dead whereyou stand!" 

The GC ran for their vehicles and for their lives. Christophersaid, "Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of Hisjudgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, thesea and springs of water." 

Nahum followed with his curse on Babylon, and Caleb warned of theconsequences of accepting the mark of the beast. Then a whiterobed evangelist strode to the front and said, "There shall besigns in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon theearth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the wavesroaring; men's hearts failing them for fear, and for lookingafter those things which are coming on the earth: for the powersof heaven shall be shaken. 

"And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud withpower and great glory. And when these things begin to come topass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemptiondraweth nigh." 

"heat's a comin' and you've got water galore, Bihari. 'Scuse mewhile I make a phone call." Mac punched in Rayford's number.
"Ray? Where you at, man? When you guys headin' this way? Good!
Listen, you've seen the rivers? That's right, you're on theChico. Let me tell you, it doesn't affect the believers. At leastit doesn't here." He told him of his encounter with Michael and 


what had happened to the blood. "We're 


about an hour from takin' off, so tell those brothers and sistersthe water is comin' ! Well, that's right, they don't need it thatbad now, do they? Bihari here's lookin' at me like I've just lostit. Well, hey, you tell 'em a deal's a deal." 

" Can I tell him, Captain Steele?" George said. 
"Tell who what?" 
"Luis. About the GC having to leave this area alone. And about


the water." 
"Like to share good news, do you?" 
"You bet!" 
"Knock yourself out." 
When they got back, Luis jogged up to the car. 
"well?" 
"George wants the privilege," Rayford said. "We roll in ten


minutes." 
Lionel would take the first four hours, then Ree would take over,
but Rayford would land the craft. Ray was strapping into the
copilot's chair when Lionel fired up the engines, but as he put


his headphones on he sensed something wrong. "You okay?" Rayford
said. 
Lionel pressed his lips together. "Did all my preflight." 



"Me too. So?" 
"Doesn't feel right." 
"Long flight, big plane, lots of cargo, friend. We don't go till


you're happy, hear?" 


"I appreciate that, but I can't put my finger on it." 


"Wanna do preflight again, check every box from top to bottom,
just to be sure?" 
"Nah, just let me think a minute." 
Rayf ord turned in his seat. "How you doing, Ree ? " 
Ree gave him a thumbs up and laid his head back, as if ready to


sleep. 


"Here comes your last crew member, Mr. Pilot. Should he shut the
door, or are we holding?" 
"Aw, nuts. Hold a second. I'm checking the cargo." 
"Need help?" 
"Nah, I got it." 
"Cold back there." 
"Don't I know it!" 
Rayford waited just past ten minutes. Ree and George were


strapped in and dozing already. Ray unstrapped and started backto the cargo hold when he met Lionel coming the other way. "Allset?" 


Lionel gave him a look. "Tell the tower we're ready." 


As they strapped back in, Lionel looked at Rayford again. "Praise
God, is all I've got to say." 
"No, it isn't. Tell me." 
"Had a whole pallet that never got secured. First bank, it would


have shifted." 
"Could have put us down." 
"'Course." 
"Surely you'd checked the cargo on preflight." 
"I did. I always do. Hardly anything's more important than


keeping that load centered and secure." 
"What made you think of it?" 


"I have no idea. I double checked every lock. All were up. I dustgot a feeling I should check again." 

"Well, buddy," R.ayford said, "if we land in India, that feelingwill be the reason." 

Chapter 
CHANG SPENT hours monitoring the palace, his ears always pricking 


up when he heard Carpathia. 


"Something in the atmosphere of that ancient Edom regioninterferes with our missiles, our flights, our artillery,"
Nicolae said one evening. "The entire area has become a BermudaTriangle. Ensure the peace but do not waste another Nick onarmory that does no more than what we can accomplishdiplomatically." 

Chang knew Global Community diplomacy was an oxymoron. Standardoperating procedure no longer included any semblance of publicrelations for the potentate. Someone was trying to protect thepotentate from it, but from all over the globe came evidence thateven the millions of citizens who bore marks of loyalty to him 

now knew that the risen god of the world had become a despotking. Hundreds of thousands were dying everywhere for want ofdrinkable water. 

One report from Region , the United African States, showed awoman railing in public before a small, obviously fearful crowd:
"Justice, fair play, even juries are relics from another time! Weobey the GC and bow to the image of the supreme ruler onlybecause we all know someone who has been put to death for failingto!" She was shot to death where she stood, and the crowdscattered for its life. 

From the same area came a sham of a recording 

depicting a programmed parade for the benefit of the GlobalCommunity News Network. The people marched listlessly, theirfaces blank, as they held aloft placards 

and chanted, "Hail, Carpathia" in monotones. 

Chang both suffered and benefited from the chaos at 


the palace. In many ways New Babylon had become a ghost town.
Citizens could no longer afford pilgrimages to the gleamingedifices. He knew from the real figures 

not the cooked books whose summaries were announced to the 
populace that half the world's population at the time of theRapture had now died. 

The capital city of the world didn't work very well anymore.
Factions and minikingdoms sprang up, even around Carpathia toppeople threatening, cajoling, surrounding themselves withsycophants. Everyone was suspicious of everYone else, while allwere obsequious and cloying around the big boss. Revolt was outof the question. Theirs was a ruler who had proved himself 

impervious to death. What was the point of killing him again? Youcould take power for three days, but you had better loot theplace and be gone when he resurrected. 

The sad state of services in New Babylon was nothing compared toeverywhere else in the world but Petra. Trib Force and Co opfliers reported that everywhere they went, they saw that thingssimply wore out and were not replaced. The huge depletion of thepopulation cost society half the people once employed in servicejobs. Few were left to transport fuel, fix cars, keep streetlampsand traffic lights working, maintain order, protect businesses.
Buck recounted in The Truth that the GC, especially at the locallevel, used their uniforms, badges, and weapons to get more forthemselves. "Pity the shop owner who doesn't grease the palm ofhis friendly neighborhood insurer of security." 

Chang watched all this from his spot as a journeyman techie inAurelio Figueroa's computer department but mostly from the systemso expertly designed and installed by his predecessor, DavidHassid. Ironic, Chang thought, that it was the one thing stillhumming along perfectly. 


Carpathia himself was a madman, and no one around him evenpretended otherwise except to his face. Everyone seemed to caterto his craziness, competing to see who could be first to curryhis favor by carrying out his latest directive which usually camein a fit of fury. 

"Insubordination!" he shrieked late one night as Chang listenedto his weary lieutenants trying to stay awake with him. "My subpotentate in Region must 

wake up tomorrow to find that the heads of both Libya andEthiopia and their entire senior cabinets have beenassassinated!" 

Suhail Akbar said, "I'll talk with him, Excellency. I'm sure hewill realize that " 

"Did you not understand that to be a directive, Suhail ? " 

"Sirs " 

"Did you not understand my order. 

"You literally want those leaders and their cabinets dead bymorning?" 

"If you cannot accomplish it, I will find " 

"It can be done, sir, but there would not be time to send ourstrike force from here " 

"You are director of Security and Intelligence! You have nocontacts in Africa who can ' 

"I'm on it, sir." 

"I should hope you are!" 


The deed was accomplished by an S & I force of AfricanPeacekeepers and Morale Monitors. Akbar was lauded the next day,
then suffered in Carpathia's doghouse for more than three weeksbecause the boss was having trouble "getting useful informationout of Region . " 

Rayford lived in an underground hut, like everyone else whoworked out of the former military base in San Diego. And like Macand Albie out of Al Basrah, Ray 

ford flew missions directly between San Diego and otherInternational Co op centers places so remote and well hidden thatif the fliers could elude GC radar and even that was crumblingwith the loss of personnel all over the world there were no peskyairport details they had to bluff their way past. The head of theTribulation Force worried that he and his people might lowertheir guard and see their whole network come crashing down. Heactually had felt more in control and careful when the GC hadbeen at full strength. The world had become a cauldron ofindividual free market systems. 

When he was "home" in San Diego, Rayford studied the reports thatcame to Chloe from Co op workers all over the globe. Hardlyanywhere in the world escaped the evil influence of the GCsponsored deceivers. Magicians, sorcerers, wizards, demonicapparitions, and deputies of Leon Fortunato preached a falsegospel. They set themselves up as Christ figures, messiahs,
soothsayers. They lauded the deity of Carpathia. They performedwonders and miracles and deceived countless thousands. These were 
lured away from considering the claims of Christ himself, usuallyby the promise of drinkable water, but once they had made theirdecisions for the evil ruler, either he snuffed them out as hehad done in the Negev or God slew them. Tsion Ben Judah continuedto maintain that God was continually evening the score, removingfrom the earth those with the sign of the beast, because a greatwar was coming. 

"It is not as if the God of gods could not defeat any foe he 


chooses," Dr. Ben Judah taught, "but the stench 

of the other side evangelizing for evil has offended him 
and kindled his wrath. Yet the wrath of God remains 
balanced by his great mercy and love. There has been 
not one report of death or injury to any of the , 
evangelists God has raised up to spread the truth about 
his ion. "

 Though weary of the battle and longing for heaven or 
the Glorious Appearing sometimes Rayford didn't care 
which came first for him still he thrilled to the reports 
from all over the world. The Tribulation Force saw many 
of these , brave men venture into public, calling 
the undecided from their homes to confront them with 
the claims of Christ. The men were powerful preachers, 
anointed of God with the gift of evangelism. Often they 
were accompanied by angels, guardians to protect them 
and their listeners. GC forces were incapable of stopping 
them.

 "The archangels Gabriel and Michael have been seen in 


 various parts of the world, makingpronouncements 
for God and standing in defense of his people,"
Tsion 
and Chaim told the people of Petra and thus the world 
via the Internet. Rayford thanked God silently as he read 
that the angel with the everlasting gospel, Christopher, 
often appeared in remote regions where Christ had never 
been preached. Nahum continued to warn of the coming 
fall of Babylon, sometimes with Christopher, sometimes 
by himself. And Caleb was reported somewhere else 
almost every day, warning of the consequences for any 
one accepting the mark of the beast and worshiping his 
image. 

Besides these, it was not uncommon for the Tribulation Force tosee or feel the presence of angels protecting them wherever theywent. Often, even outside of the routes to Petra, GC planes wouldintercept theirs, warn them, try to force them down, then shootat them. Never knowing when and where they might be protectedoutside of the Negev, Tribulation Force pilots took evasiveaction. But thus far God had chosen to insulate them, to thefrustration and astonishment of the GC. 

With less than two years to go before the Glorious Appearing,
Rayford met with Buck and Chloe to assess the current state ofthe Tribulation Force. "Where are we," he said, "and where do we 


need to be for maximum benefit to the entire body of believersaround the world? " 

Chloe reported that Lionel Whalum and his wife had somehow beenable to keep their home in Illinois, "though Leah and Hannah havedeveloped serious cases of cabin fever. I mean, I think they'reencouraged by God's work in their lives. Lionel was, of course,
thrilled by Leah's story of having been compelled to pray for himbefore he ran the final check on the cargo out of Argentina. Youknow, Dad, he's one of our busiest pilots now, deliveringsupplies all over the world. " 

"How bad is it with Leah and Hannah?" Buck said. "I don't know 
either of them that well, but Leah would get on anybody's nerves.
She still pining for Tsion?" 

"They keep low profiles," Chloe said, "and say they feel as ifthey live only at night. They don't dare venture out during theday. GC activity is spotty in that area of the suburbs, but allit would take is one report of someone without the mark, and oneof our major thrusts would be jeopardized." 

"I hardly ever hear from Z anymore," Rayford said. 

Chloe shook her head. "Of all people, Zeke has probably changedthe most. There's almost zero call for his services there in 
western Wisconsin. No uniforms to tailor, no disguises to invent,
no undercover agents to transform." 

"Could we better use him out here?" Rayford said. 

"Not when you hear this," Chloe said. "Zeke has sort of settledinto a new persona. He's taken such an interest in studying theBible that he's become the de facto assistant to the spiritualleader of the underground church there." 

" 


Zeke an assistant pastor? Rayford said. "Push me over with afeather." 

"Chloe's been keeping up with Epoch and some of his people," Bucksaid. 

"Yeah, I apologized for intruding on their lives 

and their community, because I felt responsible for 

the split up of much of The Place congregation. But Epochreminded me that if I hadn't discovered them, they never wouldhave known of the coming destruction. 

"On the other hand, Dad, I know that if I had not been traipsingaround Chicago in the middle of the 

night, there might never have beers that secondary destruction." 

One morning in Petra, the assemblage awoke to the news that allthe seas of the world had spontaneously turned from blood to saltwater again. "God has given me no special knowledge about this,"
Tsion announced. "But it makes me wonder if something worse isn'tcoming. And soon." 

Little changed except that Carpathia tried to take the credit forthe cleansing of the seas. He announced, "My people created aformula that has healed the waters. The plant and animal life ofthe oceans will surge back to life before long. And now that theoceans are clear again, all our beautiful lake and riverwaterways will soon be restored as well." 

He was wrong, of course, and the blunder of his bluster cost himeven more credibility. God had chosen, in his own time, to liftthe plague from the seas, but the lakes and rivers remainedblood. 


Just before being executed, a Swedish insurgent announced, "Whatour so called potentate ignored in exulting over the revived seasis that there is still an international mess. Dead, rotting,
smelly fish still blanket the shores around the world and stillcarry the diseases that have driven most of the coastlinepopulations inland. And where are the refining plants to turn theseas into potable water? We die of thirst while the king hoardsthe resources." 

Sixty Eight Months into the Tribulation 

Chang was intrigued to hear of an unscheduled meeting inCarpathia's conference room. Leon had actually called themeeting, much to Carpathia's frustration, but Suhail Akbar, vivIvins, and Nicolae's secretary Krystall all quickly came toLeon's defense. "This is about water, Excellency," Leon began.
"Because you no longer need nourishment, including water, perhapsyou don't underst " 

"Listen to me, Leon. There is water in food. Are you people noteating enough food?" 

"Potentate, the situation is dire. We try to harvest water fromthe seas and convert it. But even getting new ships out there isa chore." 

"It is true, unfortunately," Akbar said, "and our troopseverywhere are suffering." 

"I'm suffering," Viv said. "Personally, I mean. There are times Ithink I should die if I don't find a swallow of water. " 

"Ms. Ivins," Carpathia said, "we shall not allow theadministration of the Global Community to grind to a halt becauseyou are thirsty. Do you understand?" 


"Yes, Highness. Forgive that selfish expression. I don't know
what I " 
"In fact, do you have a whit of expertise in this area?" 


"Sirs " 
"In the matter before us! D o you bring anything to the table
that helps get us to a solution? Are you an 


expert? a scientist? a hydrologist? There is no need to shake
your head. I know the answers. If you do not have pressing
business in your office, why do you not just sit and listen and
be grateful that you draw a paycheck here?" 


"Would you prefer I leave?" 


"Of course!" 


Chang heard her chair push back from the table. 


"A little tie with my family," Nicolae said, "and you ride that
horse as if it is your own! Do not turn from me when I address
you!" 


"I thought you wanted me to leave!" she whimpered. 


"I do not cater to subjects, employees, friends, or otherwise who
disrespect their sovereign. This same attitude made you think you
could sit on MY THRONE in M Y TEMPLE!" 


"Your Lordship, I have apologized over and over for that
indiscretion! I am humiliated, repentant, and " 


"Excellency," Leon said softly, "that was more than two years ago
. . . ." 



"You!" Carpathia roared. "You call this meeting and now youcounter me as well?" 

"No, sir. I apologize if it sounds as if I am c " 

"What would you call it? Would you like to join Aunt Viv andreturn to your office to work on what you have been assigned? Youare head of the church, man! What happens to Carpathianism whileyou worry about water? Where are the scientists, thetechnologists who have something to offer here?" 

Leon did not respond. 

"Ms. Ivins, why are you still here?" 
"I but I thought you " 
"Go! For the love of all " 
"Sir," Suhail began, as if the voice of reason, "I did consult


the experts before coming, and " 


"Finally! Someone who uses the brain I gave him! What do you
have? " 
"If you'll notice here, Your Highness . . ." 
Chang heard the rattle of paper, as if Akbar was spreading a


document. 
"Satellite photography has detected a spring in the middle of


Petra that has apparently been producing freshwater since the day
of the bombings." 
"So we are back to Petra, are we, Director Akbar? The site of so


many billions of Nicks poured into the desert sands?" 



"It has been a boondoggle, sir, but notice what the aerialphotography shows. Apparently the missile struck an aquifer thatsupplies thousands of gallons of pure water every day. It onlystands to reason that the source of this spring extends faroutside the city of Petra, and our people see no reason why wecould not access it as well. " 

"Where do they believe it extends?" 

"To the east." 

"And how deep?" 

"They are not able to tell from this kind of technology, but if amissile could tap into it in Petra, surely we could drill or evenuse another missile east of there. " 

"Use a missile to tap into a spring? Suhail, have you heard ofusing too much equipment for a job?" 

"Begging your pardon, sir, but two daisy cutter bombs and a Lancemissile produced only drinking water for a million of ourenemies.". 

Mac had called Abdullah to tell him of the news of the finishingof a new Co op airstrip, "beautifully hidden" just east ofTa'izz, north of the Gulf of Aden in southern Yemen. "Albie's gota shipment he'd like to deliver to Petra, if you could run itdown there sometime in the next day or so." 

"Me?" Abdullah said. "By myself?" 

"Need me to hold your hand there, Smitty?" 

"No. It is not that. It is just that such errands are so muchmore fun with company." 


"Yeah, I'm a barrel o' laughs, but that's a quick oneman run youcan do with one of the lighter planes." 

"One of Mr. Whalum's people left a Lear here. Can the new striptake a Lear?" 

"Sure. A or smaller. Anyway, watch for us around noon. When doyou think you'd do this?" 

"Probably today. If I finish with my hair and nail appointmentsin time. I was going to have my face done too, but " 

"What in heaven's name are you goin' on about?" 

Abdullah laughed. "I finally got you, Mr. Mac! I was doing a jokeon you!" 

"Very funny, Smitty. " "I got you, didn't I, cowboy?" 

Abdullah was checking the weather at the communications center
when Naomi called out to him. "Mr. Smith, 
t 
could you tell me what you make of this?" 
He hurried over. 
"What does that look like to you?" she said. 
Abdullah's stomach dropped. Dare he say it? Dare he not? "That


looks like incoming." 
"That's what I thought! What do I do?" 
"Get Tsion and Chaim. Code red." 



"May I tell them you said that, sir?" 
"Tell them whatever you need to, but quickly." 
She pushed a button and spoke into a microphone. "Communications


central to leadership." 
"Leadership here. Morning, Naomi." 
"I need Drs. Ben Judah and Rosenzweig here ASAP on a code red,


authorized by Mr. Smith." 


"I will not ask you to repeat that if you can confirm what I
thought you said." 
"That's affirmative, Leadership. Code red." 
Abdullah met Tsion and Chaim at the entrance. Several grave


looking elders accompanied them. "Abdullah," Chaim said, "codereds are reserved for threats to the well being of the whole." 

"Follow me." 
He took them to Naomi, where they formed a half circle behind her
and stared at the screen.


 " A missile? "Looks like it," Abdullah said. 
"Headed for the city?" 
"Actually no, but close." 
"From ? " 
"Probably Amman." 
"Time? " 



 "Minutes."

 "Target? "

 "Looks east."

 "Where they have been drilling?"

 Abdullah nodded.

 Tsion said, "They have been drilling for weeks, and 
we have seen nothing. No oil, no water, no blood. Now 
they are going to bomb the place? It is not like Carpathia 
to take up arms against his own forces, depleted as they 
are. Do we have time to watch? Would it be prudent?"

 Abdullah studied the screen. "I was at ground zero for 
two bombs and a missile two years ago. I would not fear 
another missile at least a mile from here. We have field 
glasses on tripods at the high place north of the Siq."

 "Shall I warn the people?" Naomi said.

 Tsion thought a moment. "Just tell them," he said, 
"to not be alarmed by an explosion within when 
would you say, Abdullah?"

 "Fifteen minutes."

 "This is not a surprise to the drilling crew," Abdul 


lah said a few minutes later, bent to look through high 
powered binoculars.

 "They have moved," Tsion said. 

"Quite a ways, actually. More than a mile. Maybe two. And thedrill rigging has been disassembled. That tells me that theydon't want it destroyed by the missile. It is probably programmedinternally for a specific coordinate. " 

Chaim sat on a rock, breathing heavily. "Is it Just my age or isit particularly warm today?" 

"I am perspiring more than usual myself, my friend," Tsion said. 
Abdullah pulled up from the binocs and shaded his eyes with his
hand. "Now that you mention it, look at the sun. " 


It seemed larger, brighter, higher than it should have been. 
"What time is it?" Tsion said. 
"About ten." 
"Why, that could be a noonday sun! You don't suppose..." 
Abdullah heard a whistling sound in the distance. He looked


north. A white plume appeared on the horizon. "Missile," he said.
"It will be hard to follow with the glasses, but you could try." 
"I can see it with the naked eye," Tsion said. 


"I am warm," Chaim said. 
They watched as the winding missile streaked into view and began
to descend. It appeared aimed for the original drilling site. It 



soared past the disassembled drilling rig on the desert floor,
then slammed a hundred yards south of it, raising a huge cloud ofsand and soil and digging a deep, wide crater. 

The rumble of the explosion reached them in seconds, and thecloud slowly dissipated. Abdullah readjusted the binoculars tostudy the crater. "I cannot imagine it went nearly as deep as thehole they had already been drilling," he said. "Regardless, sofar it has produced nothing. " 

"I am amused," Tsion said, "but I wonder what they thought theymight accomplish. If they were hoping to strike water, would theynot have simply produced a geyser of blood anyway?"

 blank 

Chapter 

CHANG TOOK an unusual risk and surreptitiously followed themissile for water effort from his desk at work. He listened 
through headphones but kept an eye out for anyone walking by. 

Nicolae swore. "What did that little project cost, Suhail? " 

"It wasn't cheap, Excellency, but let's not assume failure justyet." 

"Assume? The Lance we sent to Tetra immediately produced a gusherthat flows to this day! This is a disaster plain as day!" 


"You may be right." 

"I am always right! Face it. You are going to have to attack thiswater thing another way." 

Chang heard a knock and Krystall's voice. "Pegging your pardon,
sir, but we are getting strange reports." 

"What kind of reports?" 

"Some kind of a heat wave. The lines are jammed. People are " 

Chang heard shouting and realized it came from his office and notfrom the surveillance. He quickly exed out and removed hisearphones. He followed his coworkers to the windows, where theycrowded to look outside. 

"Get back!" Mr. Figueroa screamed as he burst from his office.
"Get away from the windows!" 

But like toddlers, these people wanted to do whatever they weretold not to, and anyway, they were curious. What was causing allthe explosions outside? Fortunately for the crowd around thewindow Chang peered out from, it wasn't the first to go. But twoof their coworkers the cocky, condescending Lars and a youngwoman were impaled with shards of glass when the window beforethem gave way. 

As they lay writhing, pale and panicked, the steamy desert airblew in. The first woman who knelt to aid the injured immediatelyreddened from the heat, and as she surrendered and tried to evadeit, her hair curled, produced sparks, burst into flames, and wassinged off. 

Others tried to drag the first two to safety, but they too had toscamper from the heat. 


"What is this?" someone shrieked. "What's happening? " 

Those in front of Chang quickly backed away from the window, andhe saw what was going on below. Car tires exploded. People leapedfrom their cars, then tried to get back in, burning their handson the door handles. Wind 

shields melted, greenery turned brown, withered, then becametorches. A dog yanked loose from its leash, raced in circles,
then dropped, panting, before being incinerated. 

"To the basement!" Figueroa shouted, and to people who seemedreluctant to leave the fallen injured, "It's too late to helpthem!" 

People watched over their shoulders as they hurried away, and bythe time they reached the door, they saw Lars and the young womanflailing at flames that would soon consume them. 

Chang was one of the last out of the room, because he was onlyfaking the effects of the heat. He saw the results, but asidefrom being aware that the temperature outside seemed higher thannormal, he was impervious to the killing force. 

He was glad to reach the elevator just as the doors were closing.
"I'll catch the next one," he said and ran to his quartersinstead. 

At midnight in San Diego, Rayford was awakened by insistent tonesfrom his computer. He dragged himself out of bed and turned onthe monitor. Tsion was informing his cyberaudience around theworld that the terrible fourth Bowl Judgment had struck, asprophesied in the Bible, and would affect every time zone on theearth as the sun rose. "Here in Petra," he wrote, "by ten in themorning, people out in the sun without the seal of 


God were burned alive. This may seem an unparalleled opportunityto plead once again for the souls of men and women, becausemillions will lose loved ones. But the Scriptures also indicatethat this may come so late in the hearts of the undecided thatthey will have already been hardened. 

"Revelation : says, `Then the fourth angel poured out his bowlon the sun, and power was given to him to scorch men with fire.
And men were scorched with great heat, and they blasphemed thename of God who has power over these plagues; and they did notrepent and give Him glory."' 

Rayford keyed in a request to interact privately with Tsion orChaim; he did not care which. "I know both of you will beterribly busy just now, but if either can spare a moment for thesake of the Tribulation Force, I would appreciate it." 

Three Quonset huts away, Ming Toy had been awakened by a callfrom Ree Woo. Ree had promised to look up her mother, so maybethis was his update, but Ming was alarmed at the hour. She restedin the promise Christopher had given about her and her mothersurviving until the Glorious Appearing, but that she knew was noguarantee that her mother might not live out her days imprisoned. 

"Is everyone all right?" she said. 

"Better than all right," Ree said. "Although I was not 

so sure when I arrived. I was warned to stay away from theunderground shelter, because rumor had it that the GC had foundthem out and were planning a raid. The believers were busypacking and were going to sneak away in the night. They werepraying the GC would raid them later as is the custom when they 


were supposed to be sleeping. 

"But as the sun rose, they realized they heard very little noisefrom the street. Some ventured out and saw the damage from thesun. Everything is scorched, dried up, burned, melted, wasted. Noone was on the street, though charred remains were scattered. Thebelievers are protected, but the GC and the Carpathian loyalistscannot face the sun. The underground moved by the light of day,
and if the GC come for them in the night, they will bedisappointed. The believers did not move far away, but it is abetter hiding place. 

"Something they saw along the way would have been amusing, had itnot been so sad. A small faction of GC had apparently tried touse fireproof suits and boots and helmets to protect themselvesfrom the enormous heat. They lasted long enough to travel about ahundred yards; then they split up as their suits caught fire.
Piles of burning material are dotted here and there in thestreets." 

"Will you hurry back, Ree? I miss you terribly." 

"I miss you too, Ming, and I love you. This will allow me toleave during the daytime, so I should be back early. " 

"Be safe, love," she said. 

Rayford sat on the edge of his bed, head in his hands, envelopedin the unmatched darkness provided by an underground shelter.
Rayford was tired and knew he should get more sleep. But he wouldnot sleep. This 

plague, perhaps unlike any leading to it, might provide uniqueopportunities for him and his team. 

Finally the signal came, and Tsion was on the other end of the 


private messaging system. "Forgive me for not turning on thevideo," Rayford said, "but it's the middle of our night here." 

"Quite all right, Captain. Let me ask, need this be a privateconversation? I am in the tech center and others may overhear." 

"No problem, Tsion. Is everyone all right there?" 

"We are fine. We feel some extra warmth and some are fatigued,
but we are apparently protected against the real effects of thisplague." 

"I know you're busy, but I need confirmation. Do you believethose of us with the mark of the seal of God are immune to the 
heat?" 

"Yes " 

"Do you see what this could mean for the Tribulation Force, Tsion? We could do what we wanted during the 

daylight hours. As long as we are hidden again by the time theheat of the day subsides and the GC venture out again, they wouldbe powerless to interfere." 

"I see. I would caution that God has never been predictable withthese things. We know the sequence, and we used to think that oneplague began and ended before 

another started. But the curse on the oceans lasted well pastwhen the same curse hit the lakes and rivers, and the oceansturned back not too long before this one hit. I would not want tosee you some bright day when the curse ends. You would be mostvulnerable." 

"Point taken. I'd like to think this would last long enough to 


allow us some elbowroom. I've never seen the world in worse shapeor more people in need of help." 

"Oh, Rayford, the world is a spent cartridge. Even before Godunleashed this curse, the globe was in the worst conditionimaginable. It makes me wonder how the Lord can tarry until theend of the seven years. Really, what will be left? Poverty isrampant. Law and order are relics. Even Global Communityloyalists have lost faith in their government and theirPeacekeepers. The Morale Monitors are all on the take, it seems.
The people who are to be out and about do not even dare ventureinto the streets without being armed. 

"Cameron tells me he does not know one common citizen who does 
not own and carry a weapon. I hardly hear from countries wherethere are not marauding bands of thieves and rapists, not tomention vandals and terrorists. The best things we have out thereare the , evangelists and the increase in angelic activity theLord has so graciously allowed. 

"Remember, Rayford, we are down to three kinds of people now:
those of us with the mark of God, those who bear the mark ofAntichrist, and the undecided. There are fewer and fewer ofthese, but they are the ones we must reach out to. They aresuffering now, but oh, 

how they will suffer as the sun rises each day. Imagine theturmoil, the devastation. Power shortages, air conditioningoverloads, breakdowns. And all this coning with half thepopulation already gone. 

"We are not far from anarchy, my friend. The GC does not care tocrack down because they benefit. I am amazed there remain anyloyal to Carpathia. Look what he has wrought." 

"Dr. Ben Judah, how does this square with your contention thatthese judgments are as much about God's mercy and compassion asthey are about his wrath? The angel that announced the rivers and 


lakes turning to blood said it was to avenge the blood of theprophets." 

"God is just and God is holy, Rayford, but I do not believe hewould send any more judgments on the world now if he weren'tstill jealous that some repent. No doubt some will. I know themajority will not, because of what the Scripture says about theirblaspheming the name of God. Obviously, by now everyone knowsthese judgments are from God, yet many refuse to repent of theirsins." 

"I agree with you, Tsion. No one could possibly argue that Goddoesn't exist. There's overwhelming evidence of his presence andpower yet most still reject him. Why?" 

"Captain Steele, that is the question of the ages. You rememberthe Old Testament story of when Moses grew up and refused to becalled the son of Pharaoh's daughter, even though he could have?
The Bible says he chose `rather to suffer affliction with thepeople of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season.' 

"Well, these people certainly are not Moses. They will suffertorment and lose their souls, all to enjoy the pleasures of sinfor a season and what a short season. I 

applaud your thinking that this may be the time for the 

Tribulation Force to step up its efforts, to help strugglingbelievers, to find the remaining undecided and help theevangelists and the angels bring them in before it is too late. Iwish you Godspeed with whatever you decide." 

Buck hurried to George Sebastian's underground quarters, whereGeorge's wife played on the floor with their child. 

"I've got to get out and see this," Buck said. 


"Got to be careful of radar," Sebastian said. "The GC would beastounded to see anybody in the air during the day. " 

"What do you recommend?" 

"Chopper." 

"You up for it, George?" 

"You don't have to ask twice." 

Buck had seen vapor appear above the water inlets on coolmornings, but he had never seen the Pacific emit steam as far asthe eye could see. "Do you believe this?" he said. 

"I'll believe anything now," George said. 

Buck was reduced to silence as fires broke out all over what was 
left of San Diego. The closer it got to midday, the brighter thesky became. Houses and buildings no 

longer began smoking and smoldering and finally kindling. Nowthey shimmered and shook, windows bursting, roofs curling, thenwhole structures exploding and sending flames and sparksshowering about. 

George cruised back over the ocean, where Buck saw the sandchange colors before creeping carpets of flame began dancingabout. The waves brought the bubbling water in, and it hissed andboiled as it touched the blistering shore. Without warning, theentire ocean reached the boiling point and became a roilingcistern of giant bubbles, sending a fog of steam that blockedBuck's view of the sky and sun. The chopper was engulfed in whiteso pure and thick that Buck feared Sebastian would lose control. 

"Totally on instruments now, friend," George said. 


The helicopter bounced and shook in the soup as they thwockthwock thwocked toward the shore. Sebastian was half a mile 
inland before they escaped the steam cloud and peered down on theburning grasses and neighborhoods. 

"What's the boiling temperature of blood?" Buck asked. 

"Not a clue," George said, but he immediately banked and headedtoward the San Diego River. 

"Whatever it is," Buck said, "we've reached it." He gawked at thehuge crimson bubbles that formed and burst, emitting a fine spraythat rose with the steam. "Agh! " he said, grimacing and holdinghis nose. "Let's get out of here." 

The Tribulation Force was free to come and go, as long as theywere careful to plan their travel into time 

zones that kept them in daylight as long as possible. The onlyrelief for the Global Community forces and citizens with the markof loyalty was to stay inside below ground level and invent waysto take the edge off the suffocating heat. Even then, hundreds ofthousands died when their dwellings burned and fell in on them.
Homes and buildings were largely allowed to burn themselves out,
as firefighters could not venture out until well after dark. 

Gardens, crops, grasses died. The polar ice caps melted fasterthan at any other time in history, and tsunamis threatened everyport city. Shores and coastlines were buried under floods, andthe dump of dead sea creatures washed miles onto land. Had it notbeen for people having moved inland to avoid the stench andbacteria in the first place, more lives would have been lost. 

In the midst of such turmoil and grief, Rayford and Chloe workedharder than ever to rearrange their storehouses of goods andproducts traded through the International Commodity Co op. 


Knowing their time was limited, they took advantage of everyone'sobsession with finding shelter and relief from the sun. Theystrategized with Chang to move equipment and aircraft around andcreated new warehousing and distribution centers, preparing forthe last year of existence on a wounded planet. 

In New Babylon, Carpathia himself insisted the heat did notbother him. Chang overheard people in maintenance repeatedly askwhether he wanted draperies over the 

second story of his penthouse office. Even the ceiling wastransparent. The sun was magnified through the glass and roastedhis office for hours every day, making the entire rest of thefloor uninhabitable. Krystall was relocated deep in the bowelsunder Building D and had to communicate with him via intercom allday. No meetings could be held in his conference room or office,
but he spent most of the day there, ordering people about viatelephone or intercom. 

Executives on lower floors had their windows replaced, then tapedand coated and even painted black, and most other employeeoffices were moved to the basement of the vast complex. Chang'sdepartment worked only at night, so he was often able to listenin as Nicolae hummed or sang softly as he worked in his officeall day. 

"I will sunbathe in the courtyard while the mortals eat," he toldKrystall one day at noon. Chang snuck to a corner window where hescraped a hole in the coating. He was appalled to see thepotentate strip to his trousers and undershirt and lie on aconcrete bench, hands behind his head, soaking in the killer 
rays. 

After an hour, as flames licked at the concrete, Carpathia seemed 


to think of something and pulled his phone from his pocket. Changsprinted back to his quarters and listened in as Nicolae toldLeon he was on his way to Fortunato's temporary undergroundshelter. 

Later, Chang recorded Leon's call to Suhail. 

"I'm telling you, the man is inhuman! He had been outside,
sunbathing!" 

"Leon . . . " 

"It's true! He was so hot I could not stand within twenty feet ofhim! The soles of his shoes were smoking! I saw sparks in hishair, which was bleached white even his eyebrows. His shirtcollar and cuffs and tie had been singed as if the dry cleanerhad over ironed them, and 

the buttons on his suit and shirt had melted.. 

"The man is a god, impervious to pain. It's as if he prefersbeing outside in this!" 

One day Chang overheard Carpathia call Technical Services. "Iwould like a telescope set up that would point directly at thesun at noonday." 

"I can do that, Your Highness," a man said. "But of course Iwould have to do it after dark." 

"And might it have recording capability?" 

"Of course, sir. What would you like to record?" 


"Whether the sun has grown and if bursts of flame from itssurface would be visible." 

The instrument was set up and calibrated that night, and Changwatched the next day as Carpathia hurried outside at noon. Heactually peered at the sun through the lens for several minutes.
An hour later the lens had melted, and the entire telescope stoodwarped and sagging in the heat. 

The technician called Carpathia that evening to report that therecording disc had also melted. 

"That is all right. I saw what I wanted to see." 

"Sir?" 

"That was a very nice piece of equipment. It provided me acrystal clear image of the noonday sun, and indeed, I could seethe flares dancing from the surface." 

The techie laughed. "You find that humorous?" Carpathia said.
"Well, you're joking, of course." "I am not." "Sir, forgive me,
but your eyeball would be gone. In fact, your brain would havebeen fried." "Do you realize to whom you are speaking?" Chang waschilled at his tone. "Yes, sir, Potentate," the techie said, hisvoice shaky. "The sun, moon, and stars bow to me." "Yes, sir. "
"Understand ? " "Yes, sir." "Do you doubt my account?" "No, sir.
Forgive me." 

Seventeen Weeks Later 

Chang was idly monitoring various levels and temperature records 


at his desk one evening when he realized that the third BowlJudgment had been lifted. He called Figueroa. "You'll want to seethis," he said. Aurelio hurried from his office and stood behindChang. "Look at this reading." cc 'Boiling water overflowing theChicago River,"' his boss read quietly. " `overheated andradiation contaminated.' Nothing new, is it?" 

"You missed it, Chief." 

"Tell me." 

"It doesn't say blood. It says water." 

Figueroa was trembling as he used Chang's phone to call Akbar.
"Guess what I just discovered?" he said. 

"The waterways will now heal themselves over time," Chang heardSuhail Akbar tell Carpathia the next day. 

Maybe, Chang thought, i f there were decades left. 

It seemed to Chang that Carpathia was less concerned about waterand heat because neither plague had affected him personally. Whatoccupied most of his time was the failure, particularly inIsrael, of his master plan for taking care of the Jewish"problem." In many other countries, the persecutions had hadrelative success. But of the , evangelists, those assigned to theHoly Land had had tremendous success seeing the undecided becomebelievers. And then, for some reason, they had been able to evadedetection. Just when Carpathia and Akbar thought they had deviseda sweep to rid the area of Messianic Jews, the sun plague had hitand the GC were incapacitated. 

Now, though Carpathia rarely saw Suhail Akbar faceto face during 


the day, they were constantly in touch. Chang was amazed at howmuch firepower was still available to Global Community forcesafter all they had lost and had wasted in many skirmishes withthe protected Judah ites. 

The United African States threatened secession because of what 
Carpathia had done to their ruling elite, while a rebel groupthere was secretly scheming with the palace about taking over forthe disenfranchised government. 

"Suhail," Chang recorded one day from Carpathia's phone, "theseplagues have always had their seasons. This one has to endsometime. And when it does, that may be the time for us to pullout the half of our munitions and equipment that we have inreserve. Would you estimate that the confidentiality level onthat stockpile remains secure?" 

"To the best of my knowledge, Excellency." 

"When the sun curse lifts, Director, when you can stand being outin the light of day again, let us be ready to mount the mostmassive offensive in the history of mankind. I have not yetconceded even Petra, but I want the Jews wherever they are. Iwant them from Israel, particularly Jerusalem. And I will not bedistracted or dissuaded by our whining friends in northernAfrica. Suhail, if you have ever wanted to please me, ever wantedto impress me, ever wanted to make yourself indispensable to me,
give yourself to this task. The planning, the strategy, the useof resources should make every other war strategist in historyhang his head in shame. I want you to knock me out, Suhail, and Iam telling you that resources monetary and military arelimitless." 

"Thank you, sir. I won't let you down." 


"Did you get that, Suhail? Lim it less." 

Six Years into the Tribulation 

Chang arose at dawn, as usual, but he realized immediately thatthings had changed. He had not been vulnerable to the damage ofthe sun, but he had been aware of the difference in temperatureand humidity. This morning, the air felt different. 

He hurried to his computer and checked the weather. Uh oh. Show'sover. The temperature in New Babylon was normal. 

Chang ate, showered, dressed, and hurried out. The palace wasabuzz. Windows were open. People streamed in and out. He even sawsmiles, though most of the depleted employee population wasoverworked, undernourished, and looked pale and sickly. 

The brass announced that the noonday meal would be served picnicstyle, outside. Little was accomplished that morning as everyoneanticipated lunchtime. Then the mood was festive and the foodplentiful. Many got a peek at Carpathia, striding purposefullyabout as if he had a new lease on life. 

Chang hurried back to his quarters after work that day, eager tocheck on the rest of the world. The Tribulation Force had trimmed 
its sails and pulled in its cannons. They were back in hiding,
picking their spots, strategizing for returning to an after darkschedule. 

Carpathia remained tireless and expected the same of others. Heheld another high level meeting with the brass 

that had spent much of the day moving back to his floor. Even Viv 


Ivins was invited, and from what Chang could hear, all had beenforgiven. 

"For the first time in a long time," Nicolae said, "we play on aneven field. The waterways are healing themselves, and we haverebuilding to do in the infrastructure. Let us work at gettingall our loyal citizens back onto the same page with us. DirectorAkbar and I have some special surprises in store for dissidentson various levels. We are back in business, people. It is time torecoup our losses and start delivering a few." 

The new mood lasted three days. Then the lights went out.
Literally. Everything went dark. Not just the sun, but the moonalso, the stars, streetlamps, electric lights, car lights.
Anything anywhere that ever emitted light was now dark. Nokeypads on telephones, no flashlights, nothing iridescent,
nothing glow in the dark. Emergency lights, exit signs, firesigns, alarm signs everything. Pitch black. 

The cliche of not being able to see one's hand in front of one'sface? Now true. It mattered not what time of day it was; peoplecould see nothing. Not their clocks, watches, not even fire,
matches, gas grills, electric grills. It was as if the light haddone worse than go out; any vestige of it had been sucked fromthe universe. People screamed in terror, finding this the worstnightmare of their lives-- and they had many to choose from. 

They were blind completely, utterly, totally, wholly unable tosee anything but blackness twenty four hours a day. 

They felt their way around the palace; they pushed their wayoutdoors. They tried every light and every switch they couldremember. They called out to each other to see if it was justthem, or if everyone had the same problem. Find a candle! Rub twosticks together! Shuffle on the carpet and create staticelectricity. Do anything. Anything! Something to allow some 


vestige of a shadow, a hint, a sliver. 
All to no avail. 

Chang wanted to laugh. He wanted to howl from his gut. He wishedhe could tell everyone everywhere that once again God had metedout a curse, a judgment upon the earth that affected only thosewho bore the mark of the beast. Chang could see. It wasdifferent. He didn't see lights either. He simply saw everythingin sepia tone, as if someone had turned down the wattage on achandelier. 

He saw whatever he needed to, including his computer and screenand watch and quarters. His food, his sink, his stove everything.
Best of all, he could tiptoe around the palace in his rubbersoled shoes, weaving between his coworkers as they felt their wayalong. 

Within hours, though, something even stranger happened. Peoplewere not starving or dying of thirst. They were able to feeltheir way to food and drink. But they could not work. There wasnothing to discuss, nothing 

to talk about but the cursed darkness. And for some reason, theyalso began to feel pain. 

They itched and so they scratched. They ached and so they rubbed.
They cried out and scratched and rubbed some more. For many thepain grew so intense that all they could do was bend down andfeel the ground to make sure there was no hole or stairwell tofall into and then collapse in a heap, writhing, scratching,
seeking relief. 

The longer it went, the worse it got, and now people swore andcursed God and chewed their tongues. They crawled about thecorridors, looking for weapons, pleading with friends or even 


strangers to kill them. Many killed themselves. The entirecomplex became an asylum of screams and moans and guttural wails,
as these people became convinced that this, finally, was it theend of the world. 

But no such luck. Unless they had the wherewithal, the guts, todo themselves in, they merely suffered. Worse by the hour.
Increasingly bad by the day. This went on and on and on. And inthe middle of it, Chang came up with the most brilliant idea ofhis life. 

If ever there was a perfect time for him to escape, it was now.
He would contact Rayford or Mac, anyone willing and able andavailable to come and get him. It had to be that the rest of theTribulation Force in fact, all of the sealed and marked believersin the world had the same benefit he did. 

Someone would be able to fly a jet and land it right there in NewBabylon, and GC personnel would have 

to run for cover, having no idea who could do such a thing in theutter darkness. As long as no one spoke, they could not beidentified. The Force could commandeer planes and weapons,
whatever they wanted. 

If anyone accosted them or challenged them, what better advantagecould the Trib Force have than that they could see? They wouldhave the drop on everyone and everybody. With but a year to gountil the Glorious Appearing, Chang thought, the good guysfinally had even a better deal than they had when the daylighthours belonged solely to them. 

Now, for as long as God tarried, for as long as he saw fit tokeep the shades pulled down and the lights off, everything was inthe believers' favor. 

"God," Chang said, "just give me a couple more days of this. " 


EPILOGUE 

Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of thebeast, and his kingdom became full of darkness; and they gnawedtheir tongues because of the pail. They blasphemed the Cod ofheaven because of their pains and their sores, and did not repentof their deeds. 

Revelation : 


