NICOLAE: 
The Rise of the Antichrist 
Book 3 of the Left Behind Series 
TIM LAHAYE & JERRY B. JENKINS 
CHAPTER ONE 
It was the worst of times; it was the worst of times. 
Rayford Steele's knees ached as he sat behind the wheel of the rented Lincoln. He 
had dropped to the pavement at the crushing realization of his pastor's death. The 
physical pain, though it would stay with him for days, would prove minor compared 
to the mental anguish of having yet again lost one of the dearest people in his life. 
Rayford felt Amanda's eyes on him. She laid one comforting hand on his thigh. In 
the backseat his daughter, Chloe, and her husband, Buck, each had a hand on his 
shoulder. 
What now? Rayford wondered, What do we do without Bruce? Where do we go? 
The Emergency Broadcast System station droned on with the news of chaos, 
devastation, terror, and destruction throughout the world. Unable to speak over the 
lump in his throat, Rayford busied himself maneuvering his way through the 
incongruous traffic jams. Why were people out? What did they expect to see? 
Weren't they afraid of more bombs, or fallout? 
¡§I need to get to the Chicago bureau office,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§You can use the car after we get to the church,¡¨ Rayford managed. ¡§I need to get 
the word out about Bruce.¡¨ 
Global Community peacekeeping forces supervised local police and emergency 
relief personnel directing traffic and trying to get people to return to their homes. 
Rayford relied on his many years in the Chicago area to use back roads and side 
streets to get around the major thoroughfares, which were hopelessly clogged. 
Rayford wondered if he should have taken Buck up on his offer to drive. But 
Rayford had not wanted to appear weak. He shook his head. There's no limit to the 
pilot's ego! He felt as if he could curl into a ball and cry himself to sleep. 
Nearly two years since the vanishing of his wife and son, along with millions of 

others, Rayford no longer harbored illusions about his life in the twilight of history. 
He had been devastated. He lived with deep pain and regret. This was so hard.... 
Rayford knew his life could be even worse. Suppose he had not become a believer 
in Christ and was still lost forever. Suppose he had not found a new love and was 
alone. Suppose Chloe had also vanished. Or he had never met Buck. There was 
much to be grateful for. Were it not for the physical touch of the other three in that 
car, Rayford wondered if he would have had the will to go on. 
He could hardly imagine not having come to know and love Bruce Barnes. He had 
learned more and been enlightened and inspired more by Bruce than anyone else 
he'd ever met. And it wasn't just Bruce's knowledge and teaching that made the 
difference. It was his passion. Here was a man who immediately and clearly saw 
that he had missed the greatest truth ever communicated to mankind, and he was not 
about to repeat the mistake. 
¡§Daddy, those two guards by the overpass seem to be waving at you,¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§I'm trying to ignore them,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§All these nobodies-trying-to-besomebodies 
think they have a better idea about where the traffic should go. If we 
listen to them, we'll be here for hours. I just want to get to the church.¡¨ 
¡§He's hollering at you with a bullhorn,¡¨ Amanda said, and she lowered her window 
a few inches. 
¡§You in the white Lincoln!¡¨ came the booming voice. Rayford quickly turned off 
the radio. ¡§Are you Rayford Steele?¡¨ 
¡§How would they know that?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Is there any limit to the Global Community intelligence network?¡¨ Rayford said, 
disgusted. 
¡§If you're Rayford Steele,¡¨ came the voice again, ¡§please pull your vehicle to the 
shoulder!¡¨ 
Rayford considered ignoring even that but thought better of it. There would be no 
outrunning these people if they knew who he was. But how did they know? 
He pulled over. 
Buck Williams pulled his hand from Rayford's shoulder and craned his neck to see 
two uniformed soldiers scampering down the embankment. He had no idea how 
Global Community forces had tracked down Rayford, but one thing was certain: it 
would not be good for Buck to be discovered with Carpathia's pilot. 
¡§Ray,¡¨ he said quickly, ¡§I've got one set of phony IDs in the name of Herb Katz. 
Tell 'em I'm a pilot friend of yours or something.¡¨ 
¡§OK,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§but my guess is they'll be deferential to me. Obviously, 
Nicolae is merely trying to reconnect with me.¡¨ 
Buck hoped Rayford was right. It made sense that Carpathia would want to make 

sure his pilot was all right and could somehow get him back to New Babylon. The 
two uniforms now stood behind the Lincoln, one speaking into a walkie-talkie, the 
other on a cell phone. Buck decided to go on the offensive and opened his door. 
¡§Please remain in the vehicle,¡¨ Walkie-Talkie said. 
Buck slumped back into his seat and switched his phony papers with his real ones. 
Chloe looked terrified. Buck put his arm around her and drew her close. ¡§Carpathia 
must have put out an all points bulletin. He knew your dad had to rent a car, so it 
didn't take long to track him down.¡¨ 
Buck had no idea what the two GC men were doing behind the car. All he knew was 
that his entire perspective on the next five years had changed in an instant. When 
global war broke out an hour before, he wondered if he and Chloe would survive the 
rest of the Tribulation. Now with the news of Bruce's death, Buck wondered if they 
wanted to survive. The prospect of heaven and being with Christ sure seemed better 
than living in whatever remained of this world, even if Buck had to die to get there. 
Walkie-Talkie approached the driver's-side window. Rayford lowered it. ¡§You are 
Rayford Steele, are you not?¡¨ 
¡§Depends on who's asking,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§This car, with this license number, was rented at O'Hare by someone claiming to 
be Rayford Steele. If that's not you, you're in deep trouble.¡¨ 
¡§Wouldn't you agree,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§that regardless who I am, we're all in deep 
trouble?¡¨ 
Buck was amused at Rayford's feistiness, in light of the situation. 
¡§Sir, I need to know if you are Rayford Steele.¡¨ 
¡§I am.¡¨ 
¡§Can you prove that, sir?¡¨ 
Rayford appeared as agitated as Buck had ever seen him. ¡§You flag me down and 
holler at me through a bullhorn and tell me I'm driving Rayford Steele's rental car, 
and now you want me to prove to you that I'm who you think I am?¡¨ 
¡§Sir, you must understand the position I'm in. I have Global Community potentate 
Carpathia himself patched through to a secure cell phone here. I don't even know 
where he's calling from. If I put someone on the phone and tell the potentate it's 
Rayford Steele, it had blamed better be Rayford Steele.¡¨ 
Buck was grateful that Rayford's cat-and-mouse game had taken the spotlight off 
the others in the car, but that didn't last. Rayford slipped from his breast pocket his 
ID wallet, and as the GC man studied it, he asked idly, ¡§And the others?¡¨ 
¡§Family and friends,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§Let's not keep the potentate waiting.¡¨ 
¡§I'm going to have to ask you to take this call outside the car, sir. You understand 
the security risks.¡¨ 

Rayford sighed and left the car. Buck wished Walkie-Talkie would disappear too, 
but he merely stepped out of Rayford's way and pointed him toward his partner, the 
one with the phone. Then he leaned in and spoke to Buck. ¡§Sir, in the event that we 
transport Captain Steele to a rendezvous point, would you be able to handle the 
disposition of this vehicle?¡¨ 
Do all uniformed people talk this way? Buck wondered. ¡§Sure.¡¨ 
Amanda leaned over. ¡§I'm Mrs. Steele,¡¨ she said. ¡§Wherever Mr. Steele is going, 
I'm going.¡¨ 
¡§That will be up to the potentate,¡¨ the guard said, ¡§and providing there's room in the 
chopper.¡¨ 
¡§Yes sir,¡¨ Rayford said into the phone, ¡§I'll see you soon then.¡¨ 
Rayford handed the cell phone to the second guard. ¡§How will we get to wherever 
we're supposed to go?¡¨ 
¡§A copter should be here momentarily.¡¨ 
Rayford motioned for Amanda to pop the trunk but to stay in the car. As he 
shouldered both their bags, he leaned in her window and whispered. ¡§Amanda and I 
have to rendezvous with Carpathia, but he couldn't even tell me where he was or 
where we would meet. That phone is only so secure. I get the feeling it's not far 
away, unless they're coptering us to an airfield from which we'll fly somewhere else. 
Buck, you'd better get this car back to the rental company soon. It'll be too easy to 
connect you with me otherwise.¡¨ 
Five minutes later Rayford and Amanda were airborne. ¡§Any idea where we're 
going?¡¨ Rayford shouted to one of the Global Community guards. 
The guard clapped the chopper pilot on the shoulder and shouted, ¡§Are we at liberty 
to say where we're going?¡¨ 
¡§Glenview!¡¨ the pilot hollered. 
¡§Glenview Naval Air Station has been closed for years,¡¨ Rayford said. 
The chopper pilot turned to look at him. ¡§The big runway's still open! The man's 
there now!¡¨ 
Amanda leaned close to Rayford. ¡§Carpathia's in Illinois already?¡¨ 
¡§He must have been out of Washington before the attack. I thought they might have 
taken him to one of the bomb shelters at the Pentagon or the National Security 
Administration, but his intelligence people must have figured those would be the 
first places the militia would attack.¡¨ 
¡§This reminds me of when we were first married,¡¨ Buck said as Chloe snuggled 
close to him. 
¡§What do you mean `when we were first married'? We're still newlyweds!¡¨ 

¡§Shh!¡¨ Buck said quickly. ¡§What're they saying about New York City?¡¨ 
Chloe turned up the radio. ¡§... devastating carnage everywhere here in the heart of 
Manhattan. Bombed-out buildings, emergency vehicles picking their way through 
debris, Civil Defense workers pleading with people over loudspeakers to stay 
underground.¡¨ 
Buck heard the panic in the reporter's voice as he continued. ¡§I'm seeking shelter 
myself now, probably too late to avoid the effects of radiation. No one knows for 
certain if the warheads were nuclear, but everyone is being urged to take no risks. 
Damage estimates will be in the billions of dollars. Life as we know it here may 
never be the same. There's devastation as far as the eye can see. 
¡§All major transportation centers have been closed if not destroyed. Huge traffic 
jams have snarled the Lincoln Tunnel, the Triborough Bridge, and every major 
artery out of New York City. What has been known as the capital of the world looks 
like the set of a disaster movie. Now back to the Cable News/Global Community 
News Network in Atlanta.¡¨ 
¡§Buck,¡¨ Chloe said, ¡§our home. Where will we live?¡¨ 
Buck didn't answer. He stared at the traffic and wondered at the billowing clouds of 
black smoke and intermittent balls of orange flame that seemed to hover directly 
over Mt. Prospect. It was like Chloe to worry about her home. Buck was less 
concerned about that. He could live anywhere and seemed to have lived 
everywhere. As long as he had Chloe and shelter, he was all right. But she had made 
their ridiculously expensive Fifth Avenue penthouse flat her own. 
Finally, Buck spoke. ¡§They won't let anybody back into New York for days, maybe 
longer. Even our vehicles, if they survived, won't be available to us.¡¨ 
¡§What are we going to do, Buck?¡¨ 
Buck wished he knew what to say. He usually had an answer. Resourcefulness had 
been the trademark of his career. Regardless of the obstacle, he had somehow made 
do in every imaginable situation or venue in the world at one time or another. Now, 
with his new, young wife beside him, not knowing where she would live or how 
they would manage, he was at a loss. All he wanted to do was to make sure his 
father-in-law and Amanda were safe, in spite of the danger of Rayford's work, and 
to somehow get to Mt. Prospect to assess what was happening to the people of New 
Hope Village Church and to inform them of the tragedy that had befallen their 
beloved pastor. 
Buck had never had patience for traffic jams, but this was ridiculous. His jaw 
tightened and his neck stiffened as his palms squeezed the wheel. The late-model 
car was a smooth ride, but inching along in near gridlock made the huge automotive 
power plant feel like a stallion that wanted to run free. 
Suddenly an explosion rocked their car and nearly lifted it off its tires. Buck 
wouldn't have been surprised had the windows blown in around them. Chloe 

shrieked and buried her head in Buck's chest. Buck scanned the horizon for what 
might have caused the concussion. Several cars around them quickly pulled off the 
road. In the rearview mirror Buck saw a mushroom cloud slowly rise and assumed it 
was in the neighborhood of O'Hare International Airport, several miles away. 
CNN/GCN radio almost immediately reported the blast. ¡§This from Chicago: Our 
news base there has been taken out by a huge blast. No word yet on whether this 
was an attack by militia forces or a Global Community retaliatory strike. We have 
so many reports of warfare, bloodshed, devastation, and death in so many major 
cities around the globe that it will be impossible for us to keep up with all of it....¡¨ 
Buck looked quickly behind him and out both side windows. As soon as the car 
ahead gave him room, he whipped the wheel left and punched the accelerator. Chloe 
gasped as the car jumped the curb and went down through a culvert and up the other 
side. Buck drove on a parkway and passed long lines of creeping vehicles. 
¡§What are you doing, Buck?¡¨ Chloe said, bracing herself on the dashboard. 
¡§I don't know what I'm doing, babe, but I know one thing I'm not doing: I'm not 
poking along in a traffic jam while the world goes to hell.¡¨ 
The guard who had flagged down Rayford from the overpass now lugged his and 
Amanda's baggage out of the helicopter. He led the Steeles, ducking under the 
whirring blades, across a short tarmac and into a single-story brick building at the 
edge of a long airstrip. Weeds grew between the cracks in the runway. A small 
Learjet sat at the end of the strip close to the chopper, but Rayford noticed no one in 
the cockpit and no exhaust from the engine. ¡§I hope they don't expect me to fly that 
thing!¡¨ he hollered at Amanda as they hurried inside. 
¡§Don't worry about that,¡¨ their escort said. ¡§The guy who flew it here will get you 
as far as Dallas and the big plane you'll be flying.¡¨ 
Rayford and Amanda were ushered to garishly colored plastic chairs in a small, 
shabbily appointed military office, decorated in early Air Force. Rayford sat, 
gingerly massaging his knees. Amanda paced, stopping only when their escort 
motioned that she should sit down. ¡§I am free to stand, am I not?¡¨ she said. 
¡§Suit yourself. Please wait here a few moments for the potentate.¡¨ 
Buck was waved at, pointed at, and hollered at by traffic cops, and he was honked at 
and obscenely gestured at by other motorists. He was not deterred. ¡§Where are you 
going?¡¨ Chloe insisted. 
¡§I need a new car,¡¨ he said. ¡§Something tells me it's going to be our only chance to 
survive.¡¨ 
¡§What are you talking about?¡¨ 
¡§Don't you see, Chlo'?¡¨ he said. ¡§This war has just broken out. It's not going to end 

soon. It's going to be impossible to drive a normal vehicle anywhere.¡¨ 
¡§So what're you gonna do, buy a tank?¡¨ 
¡§If it wasn't so conspicuous, I just might.¡¨ 
Buck cut across a huge grassy field, through a parking lot, and beside a sprawling 
suburban high school. He drove between tennis courts and across soccer and 
football fields, throwing mud and sod in the air as the big car fishtailed. Radio 
reports continued from around the world with news of casualties and mayhem while 
Buck Williams and his bride careened on, speeding through yield signs and sliding 
around curves. Buck hoped he was somehow pointed in the right direction. He 
wanted to wind up on Northwest Highway, where a series of car dealerships 
comprised a ghetto of commercialism. 
A last sweeping turn led Buck out of the subdivision, and he saw what his favorite 
traffic reporter always said was ¡§heavy, slow, stop-and-go¡¨ traffic all along 
Northwest Highway. He was in a mood and in a groove, so he just kept going. 
Pulling around angry drivers, he rode along a soft shoulder for more than a mile 
until he came upon those car dealerships. ¡§Bingo!¡¨ he said. 
Rayford was stunned, and he could tell Amanda was too, at the demeanor of 
Nicolae Carpathia. The dashing young man, now in his mid-thirties, had seemingly 
been thrust to world leadership against his own will overnight. He had gone from 
being nearly an unknown in the lower house of Romanian government to president 
of that country, then almost immediately had displaced the secretary-general of the 
United Nations. After nearly two years of peace and a largely successful campaign 
to charm the masses following the terror-filled chaos of the global vanishings, 
Carpathia now faced significant opposition for the first time. 
Rayford had not known what to expect from his boss. Would Carpathia be hurt, 
offended, enraged? He seemed none of the above. Ushered by Leon Fortunato, a 
sycophant from the New Babylon office, into the long-unused administrative office 
at the former Glenview Naval Air Station, Carpathia seemed excited, high. 
¡§Captain Steele!¡¨ Carpathia exalted. ¡§Al¡X, uh, An¡X, uh, Mrs. Steele, how good to 
see you both and to know that you are well!¡¨ 
¡§It's Amanda,¡¨ Amanda said. 
¡§Forgive me, Amanda,¡¨ Carpathia said, reaching for her hand with both of his. 
Rayford noticed how slow she was to respond. ¡§In all the excitement, you 
understand ...¡¨ 
The excitement, Rayford thought. Somehow World War III seems more than 
excitement. 
Carpathia's eyes were ablaze, and he rubbed his hands together, as if thrilled with 
what was going on. ¡§Well, people,¡¨ he said, ¡§we need to get headed home.¡¨ 

Rayford knew Carpathia meant home to New Babylon, home to Hattie Durham, 
home to Suite 216, the potentate's entire floor of luxuriously appointed offices in the 
extravagant and sparkling Global Community headquarters. Despite Rayford and 
Amanda's sprawling, two-story condo within the same four-block complex, neither 
had ever remotely considered New Babylon home. 
Still rubbing his hands as if he could barely contain himself, Carpathia turned to the 
guard with the walkie-talkie. ¡§What is the latest?¡¨ 
The uniformed GC officer had a wire plugged in his ear and appeared startled that 
he had been addressed directly by Carpathia himself. He yanked out the earplug and 
stammered, ¡§What? I mean, pardon me, Mr. Potentate, sir.¡¨ 
Carpathia leveled his eyes at the man. ¡§What is the news? What is happening?¡¨ 
¡§Uh, nothing much different, sir. Lots of activity and destruction in many major 
cities.¡¨ 
It seemed to Rayford that Carpathia was having trouble manufacturing a look of 
pain. ¡§Is this activity largely centered in the Midwest and East Coast?¡¨ the potentate 
asked. 
The guard nodded. ¡§And some in the South,¡¨ he added. 
¡§Virtually nothing on the West Coast then,¡¨ Carpathia said, more a statement than a 
question. The guard nodded. Rayford wondered if anyone other than those who 
believed Carpathia was Antichrist himself would have interpreted Carpathia's look 
as one of satisfaction, almost glee. ¡§How about Dallas/Ft. Worth?¡¨ Carpathia asked. 
¡§DFW suffered a hit,¡¨ the guard said. ¡§Only one major runway is still open. 
Nothing's coming in, but lots of planes are heading out of there.¡¨ 
Carpathia glanced at Rayford. ¡§And the military strip nearby, where my pilot was 
certified on the 757?¡¨ 
¡§I believe that's still operational, sir,¡¨ the guard said. 
¡§All right then, very good,¡¨ Carpathia said. He turned to Fortunato. ¡§I am certain no 
one knows our whereabouts, but just in case, what do you have for me?¡¨ 
The man opened a canvas bag that seemed incongruous to Rayford. Apparently he 
had gathered Air Force leftovers for a disguise for Carpathia. He produced a cap 
that didn't match a huge, dress overcoat. Carpathia quickly donned the getup and 
motioned that the four others in the room should gather around him. ¡§The jet pilot is 
where?¡¨ he asked. 
¡§Waiting just outside the door, per your instructions, sir,¡¨ Fortunato said. 
Carpathia pointed to the armed guard. ¡§Thank you for your service. You may return 
to your post via the helicopter. Mr. Fortunato and the Steeles and I will be flown to 
a new plane, on which Captain Steele will transport me back to New Babylon.¡¨ 
Rayford spoke up. ¡§And that is in¡X?¡¨ 

Carpathia raised a hand to silence him. ¡§Let us not give our young friend here any 
information he would have to be responsible for,¡¨ he said, smiling at the uniformed 
guard. ¡§You may go.¡¨ As the man hurried away, Carpathia spoke quietly to 
Rayford. ¡§The Condor 216 awaits us near Dallas. We will then fly west to go east, if 
you know what I mean.¡¨ 
¡§I've never heard of a Condor 216,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§It's unlikely I'm qualified to¡X¡¨ 
¡§I have been assured,¡¨ Carpathia interrupted, ¡§that you are more than qualified.¡¨ 
¡§But what is a Condor 2¡X¡¨ 
¡§A hybrid I designed and named myself,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§Surely you do not think 
what has happened here today was a surprise to me.¡¨ 
¡§I'm learning,¡¨ Rayford said, sneaking a glance at Amanda, who appeared to be 
seething. 
¡§You are learning,¡¨ Carpathia repeated, smiling broadly. ¡§I like that. Come, let me 
tell you about my spectacular new aircraft as we travel.¡¨ 
Fortunato raised a forefinger. ¡§Sir, my recommendation is that you and I run 
together to the end of the airstrip and board the jet. The Steeles should follow when 
they see us get on board.¡¨ 
Carpathia held the oversized hat down onto his styled hair and slipped in behind 
Fortunato as the aide opened the door and nodded to the waiting jet pilot. The pilot 
immediately took off running toward the Learjet as Fortunato and Carpathia jogged 
several yards behind. Rayford slipped an arm around Amanda's waist and drew her 
close. 
¡§Rayford,¡¨ Amanda said, ¡§have you ever once in your life heard Nicolae Carpathia 
misspeak?¡¨ 
¡§Misspeak?¡¨ 
¡§Stutter, stammer, have to repeat a word, forget a name?¡¨ 
Rayford suppressed a smile, amazed he could find anything humorous on what 
could easily be the last day of his life on earth. ¡§Besides your name, in other 
words?¡¨ 
¡§He does that on purpose, and you know it,¡¨ she said. 
Rayford shrugged. ¡§You're probably right. But with what motive?¡¨ 
¡§I have no idea,¡¨ she said. 
¡§Hon, do you see no irony in your being offended by the man we're convinced is the 
Antichrist?¡¨ Amanda stared at him. ¡§I mean,¡¨ he continued, ¡§listen to yourself. You 
expect common courtesy and decency from the most evil man in the history of the 
universe?¡¨ 
Amanda shook her head and looked away. ¡§When you put it that way,¡¨ she 
muttered, ¡§I suppose I am being oversensitive.¡¨ 

 Buck sat in the sales manager's office of a Land Rover dealership. ¡§You never cease 
to amaze me,¡¨ Chloe whispered. 
¡§I've never been conventional, have I?¡¨ 
¡§Hardly, and now I suppose any hope of normalcy is out the window.¡¨ 
¡§I don't need any excuse for being unique,¡¨ he said, ¡§but everyone everywhere will 
be acting impulsively soon enough.¡¨ 
The sales manager, who had busied himself with paperwork and figuring a price, 
turned the documents and slid them across the desk toward Buck. ¡§You're not 
trading the Lincoln, then?¡¨ 
¡§No, that's a rental,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§But I am going to ask you to return that to O'Hare 
for me.¡¨ Buck looked up at the man without regard to the documents. 
¡§That's highly unusual,¡¨ the sales manager said. ¡§I'd have to send two of my people 
and an extra vehicle so they could get back.¡¨ 
Buck stood. ¡§I suppose I am asking too much. Another dealer will be willing to go 
the extra mile to sell me a vehicle, I'm sure, especially when no one knows what 
tomorrow may bring.¡¨ 
¡§Sit back down, Mr. Williams. I won't have any trouble getting my district manager 
to sign off on throwing in that little errand for you. As you can see, you're going to 
be able to drive your fully loaded Range Rover out of here within an hour for under 
six figures.¡¨ 
¡§Make it half an hour,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§and we've got a deal.¡¨ 
The sales manager rose and thrust out his hand. ¡§Deal.¡¨ 
CHAPTER TWO 
THE Learjet was a six-seater. Carpathia and Fortunato, deep in conversation, 
ignored Rayford and Amanda as the couple passed. The Steeles ducked into the last 
two seats and held hands. Rayford knew global terror was entirely new to Amanda. 
It was new to him. On this scale, it was new to everyone. She gripped his hands so 
tight his fingers turned white. She was shuddering. 
Carpathia turned in his seat to face them. He had that fighting-a-grin look Rayford 
found so maddening in light of the situation. ¡§I know you are not certified on these 
little speedsters,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§but you might learn something in the copilot's 
chair.¡¨ 
Rayford was much more worried about the plane he would be expected to fly out of 
Dallas, something he had never seen or even heard of. He looked at Amanda, 

hoping she would plead with him to stay with her, but she quickly let go of his hand 
and nodded. Rayford climbed toward the cockpit, which was separated from the 
other seats by a thin panel. He strapped himself in and looked apologetically at the 
pilot, who offered his hand and said, ¡§Chico Hernandez, Captain Steele. Don't 
worry, I've already done the preflight check, and I don't really need any help.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't be of any help anyway,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§I haven't flown anything smaller 
than a 707 for years.¡¨ 
¡§Compared to what you usually fly,¡¨ Hernandez said, ¡§this will seem like a 
motorbike.¡¨ 
And that's exactly what it seemed to Rayford. The Learjet screamed and whined as 
Hernandez carefully lined it up on the runway. They seemed to hit top ground speed 
in seconds and quickly lifted off, banking hard to the right and setting a course for 
Dallas. ¡§What tower do you connect with?¡¨ Rayford asked. 
¡§The tower's empty at Glenview,¡¨ Hernandez said. 
¡§I noticed.¡¨ 
¡§I'll let a few towers know I'm coming along the way. The weather people tell us 
we're clear all the way, and Global Community intelligence spots no enemy aircraft 
between here and touchdown.¡¨ 
Enemy aircraft, Rayford thought. There's an interesting way to refer to American 
militia forces. He recalled not liking the militias, not understanding them, assuming 
them criminals. But that had been when the American government was also their 
enemy. Now they were allies of lame duck United States President Gerald Fitzhugh, 
and their enemy was Rayford's enemy¡Xhis boss, of all things, but his enemy 
nonetheless. Rayford had no idea where Hernandez came from, what his 
background was, whether he was sympathetic and loyal to Carpathia or had been 
pressed into reluctant service as Rayford himself had. Rayford slipped on earphones 
and found the proper dials so he could communicate to the pilot without allowing 
for anyone else to hear. ¡§This is your pretend first officer,¡¨ he said softly. ¡§Do you 
read me?¡¨ 
¡§Loud and clear, 'Copilot',¡¨ Hernandez said. And as if reading Rayford's mind, 
Hernandez added, ¡§This channel is secure.¡¨ 
Rayford took that to mean that no one else, inside or outside the plane, could hear 
their conversation. That made sense. But why had Hernandez said that? Had he 
realized that Rayford wanted to talk? And how comfortable would Rayford be 
talking to a stranger? Just because they were fellow pilots didn't mean he could bare 
his soul to this man. ¡§I'm curious about Global Community One,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§You haven't heard?¡¨ Hernandez asked. 
¡§Negative.¡¨ 
Hernandez shot a glance behind him at Carpathia and Fortunato. Rayford chose not 

to turn, so as not to arouse any suspicion. Apparently, Hernandez had found 
Carpathia and Fortunato in earnest discussions again, because he told what he knew 
about Rayford's former plane. 
¡§I suppose the potentate would have told you himself if he had had the chance,¡¨ 
Hernandez said. ¡§There's not good news out of New York.¡¨ 
¡§I heard that,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§But I hadn't heard how widespread the damage was at 
the major airports.¡¨ 
¡§Just about total destruction, I understand. We know for sure that the hangar where 
she was located was virtually vaporized.¡¨ 
¡§And the pilot?¡¨ 
¡§Earl Halliday? He was long gone by the time of the attack.¡¨ 
¡§He's safe then?¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§That's a relief! Do you know him?¡¨ 
¡§Not personally,¡¨ Hernandez said. ¡§But I've heard a lot about him in the past few 
weeks.¡¨ 
¡§From Carpathia?¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§No. From the North American delegation to the Global Community.¡¨ 
Rayford was lost, but he didn't want to admit it. Why would the North American 
delegation be talking about Earl Halliday? Carpathia had asked Rayford to find 
someone to fly the Global Community One 757 to New York while Rayford and 
Amanda were taking a brief vacation in Chicago. Carpathia was to spend a few days 
confusing the press and the insurrectionists (President Fitzhugh and several 
American militia groups) by ignoring his published itinerary and being shuttled 
from place to place. When the militia attacked and the Global Community 
retaliated, Rayford had assumed that at least the timing was a surprise. He also 
assumed that his selection of his old friend and boss at Pan-Continental Airlines as 
the one to ferry the empty 757 to New York was of little consequence to Nicolae 
Carpathia. But apparently Carpathia and the North American delegation had known 
exactly whom he would choose. What was the point of that? And how did Halliday 
know to get out of New York in time to avoid being killed? 
¡§Where is Halliday now?¡¨ Rayford asked. 
¡§You'll see him in Dallas.¡¨ 
Rayford squinted, trying to make it all compute. ¡§I will?¡¨ 
¡§Who did you think was going to take you through the paces of the new aircraft?¡¨ 
When Carpathia had told Rayford he might learn a few things by sitting in the 
copilot's chair, Rayford had had no idea it would entail more than a few interesting 
tidbits about this quick, small jet. ¡§Let me get this straight,¡¨ he said. ¡§Earl Halliday 
knew about the new plane and is conversant enough to teach me to drive it?¡¨ 
Hernandez smiled as he scanned the horizon and maneuvered the Learjet. ¡§Earl 

Halliday practically built the Condor 216 himself. He helped design it. He made 
sure anyone who was certified on a seven-five-seven would be able to fly it, even 
though it's much bigger and a whole sight more sophisticated than Global 
Community One.¡¨ 
Rayford felt an ironic emotion rise within him. He hated Carpathia and knew 
precisely who he was. But as strange as his wife's taking offense at Carpathia's 
insistence on getting her name wrong, Rayford suddenly felt left out of the loop. ¡§I 
wonder why I would not have been informed of a new plane, especially if I am 
supposed to be its pilot,¡¨ he said. 
¡§I can't say for sure,¡¨ Hernandez said, ¡§but you know the potentate tends to be very 
wary, very careful, and very calculating.¡¨ 
Don't I know it? Rayford thought. Conniving and scheming is more like it. ¡§So he 
apparently doesn't trust me.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not sure he trusts anyone,¡¨ Hernandez said. ¡§If I were in his shoes, I wouldn't 
either. Would you?¡¨ 
¡§Would I what?¡¨ 
¡§Would you trust anyone if you were Carpathia?¡¨ Hernandez said. 
Rayford did not respond. 
¡§Do you feel like you just spent the devil's money?¡¨ Chloe asked Buck as he 
carefully pulled the beautiful, new, earth-toned Range Rover out of the dealership 
and into traffic. 
¡§I know I did,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§And the Antichrist has never invested a better dollar for 
the cause of God.¡¨ 
¡§You consider spending almost a hundred thousand dollars on a toy like this an 
investment in our cause?¡¨ 
¡§Chloe,¡¨ Buck said carefully, ¡§look at this rig. It has everything. It will go 
anywhere. It's indestructible. It comes with a phone. It comes with a citizen's band 
radio. It comes with a fire extinguisher, a survival kit, flares, you name it. It has fourwheel 
drive, all-wheel drive, independent suspension, a CD player that plays those 
new two-inch jobs, electrical outlets in the dashboard that allow you to connect 
whatever you want directly to the battery.¡¨ 
¡§But Buck, you slapped down your Global Community Weekly credit card as if it 
were your own. What kind of a limit do you have on that thing?¡¨ 
¡§Most of the cards Carpathia issues like this have a quarter:of-a-million-dollar 
limit,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§But those of us at senior levels have a special code built into 
ours. They're unlimited.¡¨ 
¡§Literally unlimited?¡¨ 

¡§Didn't you see the eyes of that sales manager when he phoned for verification?¡¨ 
¡§All I saw,¡¨ Chloe said, ¡§was a smile and a done deal.¡¨ 
¡§There you go.¡¨ 
¡§But doesn't somebody have to approve purchases like that?¡¨ 
¡§I report directly to Carpathia. He might want to know why I bought a Range 
Rover. But it should certainly be easy enough to explain, what with the loss of our 
apartment, our vehicles, and the need to be able to get wherever we have to go.¡¨ 
Once again, Buck soon grew impatient with the traffic. This time, when he left the 
road and made his way through ditches, gullies, parkways, alleys, and yards, the 
ride was sure and, if not smooth, purposeful. That vehicle was made for this kind of 
driving. 
¡§Look what else this baby has,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§You can switch between automatic or 
manual transmission.¡¨ 
Chloe leaned down to look at the floorboard. ¡§What do you do with the clutch when 
you're in automatic?¡¨ 
¡§You ignore it,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§You ever drive a stick?¡¨ 
¡§A friend in college had a little foreign sports car with a stick shift,¡¨ she said. ¡§I 
loved it.¡¨ 
¡§You wanna drive?¡¨ 
¡§Not on your life. At least not now. Let's just get to the church.¡¨ 
¡§Anything else I should know about what we're going to encounter in Dallas?¡¨ 
Rayford asked Hernandez. 
¡§You're gonna be ferrying a lot of VIPs back to Iraq,¡¨ Hernandez said. ¡§But that's 
nothing new for you, is it?¡¨ 
¡§Nope. I'm afraid it's lost its luster by now.¡¨ 
¡§Well, for what it's worth, I envy you.¡¨ 
Rayford was stunned to silence. Here he was, what Bruce Barnes referred to as a 
tribulation saint, a believer in Christ during the most horrifying period in human 
history, serving Antichrist himself against his own will and certainly at the peril of 
his wife, his daughter, her husband, and himself. And yet he was envied. 
¡§Don't envy me, Captain Hernandez. Whatever you do, don't envy me.¡¨ 
As Buck neared the church, he noticed yards full of people. They stared at the sky 
and listened to radios and TVs that blared from inside their houses. Buck was 
surprised to see one lone car in the parking lot at Hope. It belonged to Loretta, 
Bruce's assistant. 

¡§I don't look forward to this,¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§I hear you,¡¨ Buck said. 
They found the woman, now nearly seventy, stiffly in the outer office staring at the 
television, balled-up tissues rested in her lap, and she riffled atnir in her bony 
fingers. Her reading glasses rode low on her nose, and she peered over the top of 
them at the television. She did not seem to look at Buck and Chloe's as they entered, 
but it soon became clear she knew were there. From the inner office, Buck heard a 
printer producing page after page after page. 
Loretta had been a southern belle in her day. Now she sat red-eyed and sniffling, 
fingers working that tissue as if creating some piece of art. Buck glanced up to see a 
helicopter view of the bombed-out Northwest Community Hospital. ¡§People been 
callin',¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§I don't know what to tell 'em. He couldn't survive that, could 
he? Pastor Bruce, I mean. He couldn't still be alive now, could he? Did y'all see 
him?¡¨ 
¡§We didn't see him,¡¨ Chloe said carefully, kneeling next to the old woman. ¡§But my 
dad did.¡¨ 
Loretta turned quickly to stare at her. ¡§Mr. Steele saw him? And is he all right?¡¨ 
Chloe shook her head. ¡§I'm sorry, ma'am, he's not. Bruce is gone.¡¨ 
Loretta lowered her chin to her chest. Tears gathered and pooled in her half-glasses. 
She spoke hoarsely¡X 
¡§Would y'all mind turnin' that off then, please. I was just praying I'd catch a glimpse 
of Pastor Bruce. But if he's under one of those sheets, I don't care to see that.¡¨ 
Buck turned off the TV as Chloe embraced the old woman. Loretta broke down and 
sobbed. ¡§That young man was like family to me, you know.¡¨ 
¡§We know,¡¨ Chloe said, crying herself now. ¡§He was family to us, too.¡¨ 
Loretta pulled back to look at Chloe. ¡§But he was my only family. You know my 
story, don't you?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, ma'am¡X¡¨ 
¡§You know I lost everybody.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, ma'am.¡¨ 
¡§I mean, everybody. I lost every living relative I had. More than a hundred. I came 
from one of the most devout, spiritual heritages a woman could come from. I was 
considered a pillar of this church. I was active in everything a church woman. I just 
never really knew the Lord.¡¨ 
Chloe held her close and cried with her. 
¡§That young man taught me everythin',¡¨ Loretta continued. ¡§I learned more from 
him in two years than I learned in more than sixty years in Sunday school and 
church before that. I'm not blamin' anybody but myself. I was deaf and blind 

spiritually. My daddy had gone on before, but I lost Mama, all six of my brothers 
and sisters, all of their kids, their kids' husbands and wives. I lost my own children 
and grandchildren. Everybody. If somebody had made a list of who in this church 
would be most likely to go to heaven when they died, I would have been at the top 
of the list, right up there with the pastor.¡¨ 
This was as painful for Buck as it seemed for Chloe and Loretta. He would grieve in 
his own way and his own time, but for now he didn't want to dwell on the tragedy. 
¡§What're you working on in the office, ma'am?¡¨ he said. 
Loretta cleared her throat. ¡§Bruce's stuff, of course,¡¨ she managed. 
¡§What is it?¡¨ 
¡§Well, you know when he got back from that big teaching trip of his in Indonesia, 
he had some sort of a virus or something. One of the men rushed him to the hospital 
so fast that he left his laptop computer here. You know he took that thing with him 
everywhere he went.¡¨ 
¡§I know he did,¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§Well, as soon as he was settled into that hospital, he called me. He asked me to 
bring that laptop to him if I could. I would've done anythin' for Bruce, of course. I 
was on my way out the door with it when the phone rang again. Bruce told me they 
were taking him out of the emergency room and straight to intensive care, so he 
wouldn't be able to have any visitors for a while. I think he had a premonition.¡¨ 
¡§A premonition?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I think he knew he might die,¡¨ she said. ¡§He told me to keep in touch with the 
hospital for when he could have visitors. He was fond of me, but I know he wanted 
that laptop more than he wanted to see me.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not so sure about that,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§He loved you like a mother.¡¨ 
¡§I know that's true,¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§He told me that more than once. Anyway, he 
asked if I would print out everything he had on his hard drive off his computer, you 
know, everything except what he called program files and all that.¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ Chloe asked. ¡§His own Bible studies and sermon preparation, stuff like 
that?¡¨ 
¡§I guess,¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§He told me to make sure I had plenty of paper. I thought he 
meant like just a ream or something.¡¨ 
¡§It's taken more than that?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Oh, yes sir, much more than that. I stood there feeding that machine every two 
hundred pages or so until I'd finished up two reams. I'm scared to death of those 
computers, but Bruce talked me through how to print out everything that had a file 
name that began with his initials. He told me if I just typed in 'Print BB*.*' that it 
should spit out everything he wanted. I sure hope I did the right thing. It's given him 
more than he could ever want. I suppose I should just shut it down now.¡¨ 

¡§You've got a third ream going in there?¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§No. I got some help from Donny.¡¨ 
¡§The phone guy?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Oh, Donny Moore is a whole lot more than just a phone guy,¡¨ Loretta said. 
¡§There's hardly anything electronic he can't fix or make better. He showed me how I 
can use those old boxes of continuous-feed computer paper in our laser printer. He 
just hauled a box out and fed it in one end and it comes out the other so I don't have 
to keep feeding it.¡¨ 
¡§I didn't know you could do that,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Neither did I,¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§There's a lot of stuff Donny knows that I don't. He 
said our printer was pretty new and fancy and should be kicking out close to fifteen 
pages a minute.¡¨ 
¡§And you've been doing this how long?¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§Just about ever since I talked to Bruce from the hospital this morning. There was 
probably a five- or ten-minute break after those first two reams and before Donny 
helped me get that big box of paper under there.¡¨ 
Buck slipped into the inner office and stood watching in amazement as the hightech 
printer drew page after page from the paper box through its innards and out the 
other side into a stack that was threatening to topple. He straightened the stack and 
stared at the box. The first two reams of printed material, all single-spaced, lay 
neatly on Bruce's desk. The old paper box, the likes of which Buck hadn't seen in 
years, noted that it contained five thousand sheets. He guessed that it had already 
used 80 percent of its total. Surely, there must be some mistake. Could Bruce have 
produced more than five thousand pages of notes? Perhaps there was a glitch and 
Loretta had mistakenly printed everything, including program files, Bibles and 
concordances, dictionaries, and the like. 
But there had been no glitch. Buck casually fanned through first one ream and then 
the other, looking for something other than Bruce's own notes. Every page Buck 
glanced at contained personal writing from Bruce. This included his own 
commentary on Bible passages, sermon notes, devotional thoughts, and letters to 
friends and relatives and churchmen from around the globe. At first Buck felt guilty, 
as if he were invading Bruce's privacy. And yet why had Bruce urged Loretta to 
print all this stuff? Was he afraid he might be gone? Had he wanted to leave it for 
their use? 
Buck bent over the fast-rising stack of continuous-feed sheets. He lifted it from the 
bottom and allowed the pages to drop before his eyes one at a time. Again, page 
after page of single-spaced copy, all from Bruce. He must have written several 
pages a day for more than two years. 
When Buck rejoined Chloe and Loretta, Loretta said again, ¡§We might as well shut 

it off and throw the pages away. He'll have no use for all that stuff now.¡¨ 
Chloe had risen and now sat, looking exhausted, in a side chair. It was Buck's turn 
to kneel before Loretta. He placed his hands on her shoulders and spoke earnestly. 
¡§Loretta, you can still serve the Lord by serving Bruce.¡¨ She began to protest, but 
he continued. ¡§He's gone, yes, but we can rejoice that he's with his family again, 
can't we?¡¨ Loretta pressed her lips together and nodded. Buck continued. ¡§I need 
your help on a big project. There's a gold mine in that room. From just glancing at 
those pages, I can see that Bruce is still with us. His knowledge, his teaching, his 
love and compassion, they are all there. The best we can do for this little flock that 
has lost its shepherd is to get those pages reproduced. I don't know what this place 
will do for a pastor or a teacher, but in the meantime, people need access to what 
Bruce has written. Maybe they've heard him preach it, maybe they've seen it in 
other forms before. But this is a treasure that everyone can use.¡¨ 
Chloe spoke up. ¡§Buck, shouldn't you try to edit it or shape it into some sort of book 
form first?¡¨ 
¡§I'll take a look at it, Chloe, but there's a certain beauty in simply reproducing it in 
the form it's in. This was Bruce off-the-cuff, in the middle of his study, writing to 
fellow believers, writing to friends and loved ones, writing to himself. I think 
Loretta ought to take all those pages to a quick-print shop and get them started. We 
need a thousand copies of all that stuff, printed on two sides and bound simply.¡¨ 
¡§That'll cost a fortune,¡¨ Loretta said. 
¡§Don't worry about that now,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I can't think of a better investment.¡¨ 
As the Learjet made its initial descent into the Dallas/Ft. Worth area, Fortunato 
ducked into the cockpit and knelt between Hernandez and Rayford. Each slipped the 
headphone off the ear closest to Carpathia's aide. ¡§Anybody hungry?¡¨ he said. 
Rayford hadn't even thought of food. For all he knew, the world was blowing itself 
to bits and no one would survive this war. The very mention of hunger, however, 
triggered something in him. He realized he was famished. 
He knew Amanda would be as well. She was a light eater, and he often had to make 
sure she remembered to eat. 
¡§I could eat,¡¨ Hernandez said. ¡§In fact, I could eat a lot.¡¨ 
¡§Potentate Carpathia would like you to contact DFW tower and have something 
nice waiting for us.¡¨ 
Hernandez suddenly looked panicky. ¡§What do you think he means by 'something 
nice'?¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure you'll arrange for something appropriate, Captain Hernandez.¡¨ 
Fortunato backed out of the cockpit and Hernandez rolled his eyes at Rayford. 
¡§DFW tower, this is Global Community Three, over.¡¨ 
Rayford glanced back as Fortunato took his seat. Carpathia had swung around and 

was in deep conversation with Amanda. 
Chloe worked with Loretta in fashioning a terse, two-sentence statement that was 
sent out by phone to the six names at the top of the prayer chain list. Each would 
call others who would call others, and the news would quickly spread throughout 
the New Hope body. Meanwhile, Buck recorded a brief message on the answering 
machine that simply said: ¡§The tragic news of Pastor Bruce's death is true. Elder 
Rayford Steele saw him and believes he may have died before any explosives hit the 
hospital. Please do not come to the church, as there will be no meetings or services 
or further announcements until Sunday at the regular time.¡¨ Buck turned the ringer 
off on the phone and directed all calls to the answering machine, which soon began 
clicking every few minutes, as more and more parishioners called in for 
confirmation. Buck knew Sunday morning's meeting would be packed. 
Chloe agreed to follow Loretta home and make sure she was all right while Buck 
was calling Donny Moore. ¡§Donny,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§I need your advice, and I need it 
right away.¡¨ 
¡§Mr. Williams, sir,¡¨ came Donny's characteristic staccato delivery, ¡§advice is my 
middle name. And as you know, I work at home, so I can come to you or you can 
come to me and we can talk whenever you want.¡¨ 
¡§Donny, I'm not mobile just now, so if you could find your way clear to visiting me 
at the church, I'd sure appreciate it.¡¨ 
¡§I'll be right over, Mr. Williams, but could you tell me something first? Did Loretta 
have the phones off the hook there for a while?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, I believe she did. She didn't have answers for people who were calling about 
Pastor Bruce. With nothing to tell people, she just turned off the phones.¡¨ 
¡§That's a relief,¡¨ Donny said. ¡§I just got her set up with a new system a few weeks 
ago, so I hope nothing was wrong. How is Bruce, by the way?¡¨ 
¡§I'll tell you all about that when you get here, Donny, OK?¡¨ 
Rayford saw billowing black clouds over the Dallas/Ft. Worth commercial airport 
and thought of the many times he had landed big craft on those long runways. How 
long would it take to rebuild here? Captain Hernahdez guided the Lear jet to a 
nearby military strip, the one Rayford had visited so recently. He saw no other 
aircraft on the ground. Clearly, someone had moved all the planes to keep the strip 
from being a target. 
Hernandez landed the Lear jet as smoothly as a man can land a plane that small, and 
they immediately taxied to the end of the runway and directly into a large hangar. 
Rayford was surprised that, indeed, the rest of the hangar was empty, too. 
Hernandez shut down the engines, and they deplaned. As soon as Carpathia had 

room, he put back on his disguise. He whispered something to Fortunato, who asked 
Hernandez where they would find the food. ¡§Hangar three,¡¨ Hernandez said. ¡§We're 
in hangar one. The plane's in hangar four.¡¨ 
The disguise proved unnecessary. There was not much space between the hangars, 
and the small contingent moved quickly into and out of small doors at the sides of 
the buildings. Hangars two and three were also empty, except for a table piled with 
catered lunches near the side door that led to hangar four. 
They approached the tables, and Carpathia turned to Rayford. ¡§Say good-bye to 
Captain Hernandez,¡¨ he said. ¡§After he has eaten, he will be on assignment for me 
near the old National Security Agency building in Maryland. It is unlikely you will 
see him again. He flies only the small craft.¡¨ 
It was all Rayford could do to keep from shrugging. What did he care? He had just 
met the man. Why was it so important for Carpathia to keep him updated on 
personnel? He had not told Rayford of Earl Halliday's involvement in helping 
design a new plane. He had not told Rayford that he expected to need a new plane. 
He had not even sought Rayford's input about the plane he would be flying. Rayford 
would never understand the man. 
Rayford ate ravenously and tried to encourage Amanda to eat more than usual. She 
did not. As the group made its last move between hangars, Rayford heard the 
characteristic whine of the Learjet and realized Hernandez was already airborne. 
Interestingly, Fortunato disappeared soon after they entered hangar four. There, 
standing at attention in a neat row, were four of the ten international ambassadors 
who represented huge land masses and populations and reported directly to 
Carpathia. Rayford had no idea where they had been or how they had gotten here. 
All he knew was that it was his job to get them all to New Babylon for emergency 
meetings in light of the outbreak of World War III. 
At the end of the row was Earl Halliday, standing stiffly and staring straight ahead. 
Carpathia shook hands with each of the four ambassadors in turn and ignored 
Halliday, who seemed to expect that. Rayford walked directly to Halliday and stuck 
out his hand. Halliday ignored it and spoke under his breath. ¡§Get away from me, 
Steele, you scum!¡¨ 
¡§Earl!¡¨ 
¡§I mean it, Rayford. I have to bring you up to speed on this plane, but I don't have to 
pretend to like it.¡¨ 
Rayford backed away, feeling awkward, and joined Amanda, who had been left 
alone and looked out of place herself. 
¡§Rayford, what in the world is Earl doing here?¡¨ she asked. 
¡§I'll tell you later. He's not happy, I can tell you that. What was Carpathia talking to 
you about on the plane?¡¨ 
¡§He wanted to know what I wanted to eat, of all things. That man!¡¨ 

Two aides from New Babylon entered and greeted Carpathia with embraces. One 
motioned for Earl and Rayford to join him in a corner of the hangar as far from the 
Condor 216 as they could get. Rayford had purposely avoided staring at the 
monstrous aircraft. Though it sat facing the door that would open to the runway and 
was more than 150 feet from where they stood, still the Condor seemed to dominate 
the hangar. Rayford had known from a glance that here was a plane that had been in 
development for years, not just months. It was clearly the biggest passenger plane 
he had ever seen, and it was painted such a brilliant white that it seemed to 
disappear against the light walls in the dimly lit hangar. He could only imagine how 
difficult it would be to spot in the sky. Carpathia's aide, dressed just like Carpathia 
in a natty black suit, white shirt, and bloodred tie with a gold stickpin, leaned in 
close to Rayford and Earl and spoke earnestly. ¡§Potentate Carpathia would like to 
be airborne as soon as possible. Can you give us an estimated time of departure?¡¨ 
¡§I've never even seen this plane,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§and I have no idea¡X¡¨ 
¡§Rayford,¡¨ Earl interrupted, ¡§I'm telling you, you can fly this plane within half an 
hour. I know you; I know planes. So trust me.¡¨ 
¡§Well, that's interesting, Earl, but I won't make any promises until I've been put 
through the paces.¡¨ 
The Carpathia wanna-be turned to Halliday. ¡§Are you available to fly this plane, at 
least until Steele here feels he's¡X¡¨ 
¡§No sir, I am not!¡¨ Halliday said. ¡§Just let me have Steele for thirty minutes and 
then let me get back to Chicago.¡¨ 
Donny Moore proved more of a talker than Buck appreciated, but he decided 
feigning interest was a small price for the man's expertise. ¡§So, you're a phone 
systems guy, but you sell computers¡X¡¨ 
¡§On the side, right, yes sir. Just about double my income that way. Got a trunk full 
of catalogs, you know.¡¨ 
¡§I'd like to see those,¡¨ Buck said. 
Donny grinned. ¡§I thought you might.¡¨ He opened his briefcase and pulled out a 
stack, apparently one of each of the manufacturers he represented. He spread six out 
before Buck on the coffee table. 
¡§Whoa,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§I can see already there are going to be too many choices. Why 
don't you just let me tell you what I'm looking for, and you tell me if you can 
deliver?¡¨ 
¡§I can tell you right now I can deliver,¡¨ Donny said. ¡§Last week I sold a guy thirty 
sub-notebooks with more power than any desktop anywhere, and¡X¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me a moment, Donny,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Did you hear that printer quit?¡¨ 

¡§I sure did. It just stopped now. It's either out of paper, out of ink, or done with 
whatever it was doing. I sold that machine to Bruce, you know. Top of the line. 
Prints regular paper, continuous feed-whatever you need.¡¨ 
¡§Let me just check on it,¡¨ Buck said. He rose and peeked into the inner office. The 
screen on Bruce's laptop had already suspended itself. No warning lights on the 
printer told of shortages of ink or paper. Buck pushed a button on the laptop and the 
screen came alive. It indicated the print job was finally over. Buck guessed there 
were about a hundred pages left from the five-thousand-page box Loretta had run 
through the printer. What a treasure, Buck thought. 
¡§When's Bruce gonna be back here?¡¨ Buck heard Donny ask from the other room. 
Rayford and Earl boarded the Condor alone. Earl held a finger to his lips and 
Rayford assumed he was looking for bugs. He checked the intercom system 
thoroughly before speaking. ¡§You never know,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Tell me about it,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§You tell me about it, Rayford!¡¨ 
¡§Earl, I'm much more in the dark than you are. I didn't even know you were 
involved in this project. I had no idea you were working for Carpathia. You knew I 
was, so why didn't you tell me?¡¨ 
¡§I'm not working for Carpathia, Rayford. I was pressed into service. I'm still a Pan- 
Con chief pilot at O'Hare, but when duty calls¡X¡¨ 
¡§Why didn't Carpathia tell me he was aware of you?¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§He asked me 
to find somebody to fly Global Community One into New York. He didn't know I 
would choose you.¡¨ 
¡§He must have,¡¨ Earl said. ¡§Who else would you pick? I was asked to help design 
this new plane, and I thought it would be fun just to test it a little bit. Then I get 
asked to fly the original plane to New York. Since the request came from you, I was 
flattered and honored. It was only when I got on the ground and realized the plane 
and I were targets that I got out of New York and headed back to Chicago as fast as 
I could. I never got there. I got word from Carpathia's people while I was in the air 
that I was needed in Dallas to brief you on this plane.¡¨ 
¡§I'm lost,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Well, I don't know much either,¡¨ Earl said. ¡§But it's clear Carpathia wanted my 
going to New York and winding up dead to look like your decision, not his.¡¨ 
¡§Why would he want you dead?¡¨ 
¡§Maybe I know too much.¡¨ 
¡§I've been flying him all over the place,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§I have to know more than 
you, and yet I don't sense he's thinking about doing me in.¡¨ 

¡§Just watch your back, Rayford. I've heard enough to know this is not all what it 
seems to be and that this man does not have the world's best interests at heart.¡¨ 
There's the understatement of the ages, Rayford thought. 
¡§I don't know how you got me into this, Rayford, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§I got you into this? Earl, you have a short memory. You're the one who encouraged 
me to become the pilot of Air Force One. I wasn't looking for that job, and I 
certainly never dreamed it would turn into this.¡¨ 
¡§Piloting Air Force One was a plum assignment,¡¨ Earl said, ¡§whether you 
recognized that at the time or not. How was I to know what would come of it?¡¨ 
¡§Let's stop blaming each other and decide what we're supposed to do now.¡¨ 
¡§Ray, I'm gonna bring you up to speed on this plane, but then I think I'm a dead 
man. Would you tell my wife that¡X¡¨ 
¡§Earl, what are you talking about? Why do you think you won't make it back to 
Chicago?¡¨ 
¡§I have no idea, Ray. All I know is that I was supposed to be in New York with that 
plane when it got obliterated. I don't see myself as any threat to the Carpathia 
administration, but if they cared a whit about me, they would have gotten me out of 
New York before I had the idea I'd better get out of there.¡¨ 
¡§Can't you get yourself some sort of emergency assignment at DFW? There has to 
be a huge need for Pan-Con personnel over there, in light of everything.¡¨ 
¡§Carpathia's people have arranged a ride back to Chicago for me. I just have this 
feeling I'm not safe.¡¨ 
¡§Tell them you don't want to put them out. Tell them you've got plenty of work to 
do at DFW.¡¨ 
¡§I'll try. Meanwhile, let me show you this rig. And Ray, as an old friend, I want you 
to promise me that if anything does happen to me¡X¡¨ 
¡§Nothing is going to happen to you, Earl. But of course I'll keep in touch with your 
wife either way.¡¨ 
Donny Moore fell silent at the tragic news. He sat staring, eyes wide, seemingly 
unable to form words. Buck busied himself leafing through the catalogs. He couldn't 
concentrate. He knew there would be more questions. He didn't know what to tell 
Donny. And he needed this man's help. 
Donny's voice came hoarse with emotion. ¡§What's gonna happen to this church?¡¨ 
¡§I know this sounds like a cliche,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§but I believe God will provide.¡¨ 
¡§How will God. provide anybody like Pastor Bruce?¡¨ 
¡§I know what you mean, Donny. Whoever it is won't be another Pastor Bruce. He 

was unique.¡¨ 
¡§I'm still having trouble believing it,¡¨ Donny said. ¡§But I don't guess anything 
should surprise me anymore.¡¨ 
Rayford sat behind the controls of the Condor 216. ¡§What am I supposed to do for a 
first officer?¡¨ he asked Earl. 
¡§They've got somebody on his way over from one of the other airlines. He'll fly 
with you as far as San Francisco, where McCullum will join you.¡¨ 
¡§McCullum? He copiloted for me from New Babylon to Washington, Earl. When I 
went to Chicago, he was supposed to go back to Iraq.¡¨ 
¡§I only know what I'm told, Rayford.¡¨ 
¡§And why are we flying west to go east, as Carpathia says?¡¨ 
¡§I have no idea what's going on here, Rayford. I'm new to this. Maybe you know 
better than I do. The fact is, most of the war and devastation seems to be east of the 
Mississippi. Have you noticed that? It's almost as if it was planned. This plane was 
designed and built here in Dallas, but not at DFW where it might have been 
destroyed. It's ready for you just when you need it. As you can see it has the 
controls of a seven-five-seven and yet it's a much bigger plane. If you can fly a 'fiftyseven, 
you can fly this. You just need to get used to the size of it. The people you 
need are where you need them when you need them. Figure it out, boy. None of this 
seems a surprise to Carpathia, does it?¡¨ 
Rayford had no idea what to say. It didn't take long to catch on. 
Halliday continued, ¡§You'll fly on a straight line from Dallas to San Francisco, and 
my guess is you won't see any devastation from the air, and you won't be threatened 
from attack heading that way either. There might be militia people somewhere out 
west who would like to shoot rockets at Carpathia, but there are precious few people 
who know he's heading that way. You'll stop in San Francisco just long enough to 
get rid of this copilot and pick up your usual one.¡¨ 
Buck touched Donny's arm, as if rousing him from sleep. Donny looked at him 
blankly. ¡§Mr. Williams, this has all been hard enough even with Pastor Bruce here. I 
don't know what we're going to do now.¡¨ 
¡§Donny,¡¨ Buck said gravely, ¡§you have an opportunity here to do something for 
God, and it's the greatest memorial tribute you could ever give to Bruce Barnes.¡¨ 
¡§Well then, sir, whatever it is, I want to do it.¡¨ 
¡§First, Donny, let me assure you that money is no object.¡¨ 
¡§I don't want any profit off something that will help the church and God and Bruce's 
memory.¡¨ 

¡§Fine. Whatever profit you build in or don't build in is up to you. I'm just telling you 
that I need five of the absolute best, top-of-the-line computers, as small and 
compact as they can be, but with as much power and memory and speed and 
communications abilities as you can wire into them.¡¨ 
¡§You're talking my language, Mr. Williams.¡¨ 
¡§I hope so, Donny, because I want a computer with virtually no limitations. I want 
to be able to take it anywhere, keep it reasonably concealed, store everything I want 
on it, and most of all, be able to connect with anyone anywhere without the 
transmission being traced. Is that doable?¡¨ 
¡§Well, sir, I can put together something for you like those computers that scientists 
use in the jungle or in the desert when there's no place to plug in or hook up to.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Some of our reporters use those in remote areas. What do they 
have, built-in satellite dishes?¡¨ 
¡§Believe it or not, it is something like that. And I can add another feature for you, 
too.¡¨ 
¡§What's that?¡¨ 
¡§Video conferencing.¡¨ 
¡§You mean I can see the person I'm talking to while I'm talking to him?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, if he has the same technology on his machine.¡¨ 
¡§I want all of it, Donny. And I want it fast. And I need you to keep this 
confidential.¡¨ 
¡§Mr. Williams, these machines could run you more than twenty thousand dollars 
apiece.¡¨ 
Buck had thought money would be no object, but this was one expense he could not 
lay off on Carpathia. He sat back and whistled through his teeth. 
CHAPTER THREE 
¡§CALL it a hunch, Rayford, but I put something in here just for you.¡¨ 
Rayford and Earl were finished in the cockpit. He trusted Earl. He knew that if Earl 
thought he could fly this thing, then he could. He still was going to insist on his and 
his temporary first officer's taking off, staging, and landing before he risked flying 
anyone else. It wouldn't have bothered Rayford to crash and kill himself along with 
the Antichrist, but he didn't want to be responsible for innocent lives, particularly 
that of his own wife. 
¡§So, what did you do for me, Earl?¡¨ 

¡§Just look at this,¡¨ Earl said. He pointed to the button that allowed the captain to 
speak to the passengers. 
¡§Captain's intercom,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§So what?¡¨ 
¡§Reach under your seat with your left hand and run your fingers along the side edge 
of the bottom of your chair,¡¨ Earl said. 
¡§I feel a button.¡¨ 
¡§I'm going to step back into the cabin now,¡¨ Earl said. ¡§You mash the normal 
intercom button and make an announcement. Wait for a count of three, and then 
push that button under your seat. Make sure your headphones are still on.¡¨ 
Rayford waited until Halliday had left and latched the cockpit door. Rayford got on 
the intercom. ¡§Hello, hello, hey Earl yada yada yada.¡¨ Rayford counted silently to 
himself, then pushed the button under his seat. He was amazed to hear through his 
earphones Earl Halliday speaking in just above a whisper. ¡§Rayford, you can tell 
I'm speaking in lower than even conversational tones. If I did my job right, you can 
hear me plain as day from all over this plane. Every one of the speakers is also a 
transmitter and leads back to only your headphone jack. I wired it in such a way that 
it's undetectable, and this plane has been gone over by Global Community's best 
bug finders. If it's ever detected, I'll just tell them I thought that was what they 
wanted.¡¨ 
Rayford came hustling out of the cockpit. ¡§Earl, you're a genius! I'm not sure what 
I'll hear, but it has to be an advantage to know what's going on out here.¡¨ 
Buck was boxing up all the pages from Bruce's printout when he heard the Range 
Rover in the parking lot. By the time Chloe reached the office, he had packaged 
pages and Bruce's computer into one huge carton. As he lugged it out, he told 
Chloe, ¡§Drop me off at the Chicago bureau office, and then you'd better check with 
The Drake and be sure our stuff is still there. We'll want to keep that room until we 
find a place to live closer to here.¡¨ 
¡§I was hoping you'd say that,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§Loretta is devastated. She's going to 
need a lot of help here. What are we going to do about a funeral?¡¨ 
¡§You're going to have to help handle that, Chlo'. You'll want to check with the 
coroner's office, have the body delivered to a funeral home nearby here, and all that. 
With so many casualties, it's going to be a mess, so they'll probably be glad to know 
that at least one body has been claimed. We're each going to need a vehicle. I have 
no idea where I'll be expected to go. I can work out of the Chicago office in light of 
the fact that no one will be going to New York for a long time, but I can't promise 
I'll be around here all the time.¡¨ 
¡§Loretta, bless her heart, thought of the same thing in spite of all she's going 
through. She reminded me that there's a fleet of extra cars among the congregation 
and has been ever since the Rapture. They lend these out for just such crises as this 

one.¡¨ 
¡§Good,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Let's get you fixed up with one of those. And remember, we're 
going to need to get this material reproduced for members of the congregation.¡¨ 
¡§You're not going to have time to go through all that, are you, Buck?¡¨ 
¡§No, but I'm confident that anything in here will be profitable for all.¡¨ 
¡§Buck, wait a minute. There's no way we can reproduce that until someone has read 
all of it. There's got to be private, personal stuff in there. And you know there will 
be direct references to Carpathia and to the Tribulation Force. We can't risk being 
exposed like that.¡¨ 
Buck had an ego crisis. He loved this woman, but she was ten years his junior and 
he hated when it seemed as if she was telling him what to do, especially when she 
was right. As he lay the heavy box of pages and the computer in the back of the 
Range Rover, Chloe said, ¡§Just entrust it to me, hon. I'll spend every day between 
now and Sunday poring over it line by line. By then we'll have something to share 
with the rest of New Hope, and we can even announce that we might have 
something in copied form for them within a week or so.¡¨ 
¡§When you're right, you're right. But where will you do this?¡¨ 
¡§Loretta has offered to let us stay with her. She's got that big old house, you know.¡¨ 
¡§That would be perfect, but I hate to impose.¡¨ 
¡§Buck, we would hardly be imposing. She'll hardly know we're there. Anyway, I 
sense she's so lonely and beside herself with grief that she really needs us.¡¨ 
¡§You know it's unlikely I'll be there much,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I'm a big girl. I can take care of myself.¡¨ 
They were in the Range Rover now. ¡§Then what do you need me for?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I keep you around because you're cute.¡¨ 
¡§But seriously, Chloe, I'll never forgive myself if I'm in some other city or country 
and the war comes right here to Mt. Prospect.¡¨ 
¡§You've forgotten the shelter under the church.¡¨ 
¡§I haven't forgotten it, Chloe. I'm just praying it'll never come to that. Does anybody 
else know about that place except the Tribulation Force?¡¨ 
¡§No. Not even Loretta. It's an awfully small place. If Daddy and Amanda and you 
and I had to stay there for any length of time, it wouldn't be much fun.¡¨ 
Half an hour later, Buck pulled into the Chicago area office of Global Community 
Weekly magazine. ¡§I'm going to get us a couple of cell phones,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§I'll 
call The Drake and then get down there and get our stuff. I'll also talk with Loretta 
about a second vehicle.¡¨ 
¡§Get five of those cell phones, Chloe, and don't scrimp.¡¨ 

¡§Five?¡¨ she said. ¡§I don't know if Loretta would even know how to use one.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not thinking of Loretta. I just want to make sure we have a spare.¡¨ 
The Condor 216 was outfitted even more lavishly than Global Community One had 
been, if that was possible. No detail had been missed, and the latest communications 
devices had been installed. Rayford had bidden farewell to Earl Halliday, urging 
Earl to let him know that his home was intact and his wife was safe, as soon as he 
knew. ¡§You're not going to like what's happened to our airport,¡¨ Rayford had told 
him. ¡§You won't be landing at O'Hare.¡¨ 
Rayford and his temporary copilot had irritated Carpathia by making a trial takeoff 
and fly-around before letting the others board the plane. Rayford was glad he had. 
While it was true that everything in the cockpit was identical to a 757, the bigger, 
heavier plane behaved more like a 747, and it took some getting used to. Now that 
the loaded and airborne Condor 216 was streaking toward San Francisco at thirtythree 
thousand feet and at more than seven hundred miles per hour, Rayford put the 
craft on autopilot and urged his first officer to stay alert. 
¡§What are you going be doing, sir?¡¨ the younger man asked. 
¡§Just sitting here,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§Thinking. Reading.¡¨ 
Rayford had cleared his flight path with an Oklahoma tower and now pushed the 
button to communicate with his passengers. ¡§Potentate Carpathia and guests, this is 
Captain Steele. Our estimated time of arrival in San Francisco is 5:00 P.M., Pacific 
Standard Time. We expect clear skies and smooth flying.¡¨ 
Rayford sat back and pulled his earphone band toward the back of his head, as if 
pulling the phones off. However, they were still close enough to his ears so that he 
could hear and his copilot, because his own earphones were on, could not. Rayford 
pulled from his flight bag a book and opened it, resting it on the controls before 
him. He would have to remember to turn a page occasionally. He would not really 
be reading. He would be listening. He slipped his left hand under the seat and 
quietly depressed the hidden button. 
The first voice he heard, clear as if she were talking to him on the phone, was 
Amanda's. ¡§Yes, sir, I understand. You need not worry about me, no sir.¡¨ 
Now Carpathia spoke: ¡§I trust everyone got enough to eat in Dallas. We will have 
an entire flight crew joining us in San Francisco, and we will be well taken care of 
throughout our flight to Baghdad and then on to New Babylon.¡¨ 
Another voice: ¡§Baghdad?¡¨ 
¡§Yes,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§I have taken the liberty of flying into Baghdad the 
remaining three loyal ambassadors. Our enemies might have assumed we would fly 
them directly into New Babylon. We will pick them up and begin our meetings on 
the short hop from Baghdad to New Babylon. 

¡§Mrs. Steele, if you would excuse us¡X¡¨ 
¡§Certainly,¡¨ Amanda said. 
¡§Gentlemen,¡¨ Carpathia spoke more quietly now, but still clearly enough that 
Rayford could understand every word. Someday he would have to thank Earl 
Halliday on behalf of the kingdom of Christ. Earl had no interest in serving God, at 
least not yet, but whatever motivated him to do Rayford a favor like that, it was 
certainly going to benefit the enemies of the Antichrist. 
Carpathia was saying: ¡§Mr. Fortunato remained in Dallas briefly to arrange my next 
radio broadcast from there. I will do it from here; however, it will be patched to 
Dallas and broadcast, again to throw off any enemies of the Global Community. I 
do need him in on our talks in the night, so we will wait on the ground in San 
Francisco until he is able to join us. As soon as we leave the ground out of San 
Francisco, we will trigger both L.A. and the Bay Area.¡¨ 
¡§The Bay Area?¡¨ came a heavily accented voice. 
¡§Yes, that is San Francisco and the Oakland area.¡¨ 
¡§What do you mean by 'trigger'?¡¨ 
Carpathia's tone became grave. ¡§ 'Trigger' means just what it sounds like it means,¡¨ 
he said. ¡§By the time we land in Baghdad, more than Washington, New York, and 
Chicago will have been decimated. Those are just three of the North American cities 
that will suffer the most. So far, only the airport and one suburb have suffered in 
Chicago. That will change within the hour. You already know about London. Do 
you gentlemen understand the significance of a one-hundred-megaton bomb?¡¨ 
There was silence. Carpathia continued. ¡§To put it in perspective, history books tell 
us that a twenty-megaton bomb carries more power than all those dropped in World 
War II, including the two that fell on Japan.¡¨ 
¡§The United States of Great Britain had to be taught,¡¨ came the accented voice 
again. 
¡§Indeed they did,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§And in North America alone, Montreal, 
Toronto, Mexico City, Dallas, Washington, D.C., New York, Chicago, San 
Francisco, and Los Angeles will become object lessons to those who would oppose 
us.¡¨ 
Rayford whipped off his earphones and unbuckled himself. He stepped through the 
cockpit door and made eye contact with Amanda. He motioned for her to come to 
him. Carpathia looked up and smiled. ¡§Captain Steele,¡¨ he greeted him, ¡§is 
everything well?¡¨ 
¡§Our flight is uneventful, sir, if that's what you're asking. That's the best kind of 
flight. I can't say much for what's happening on the ground, however.¡¨ 
¡§True enough,¡¨ Carpathia said, suddenly sober. ¡§I will soon address the global 
community with my condolences.¡¨ 

Rayford pulled Amanda into the galley way. ¡§Were Buck and Chloe going to stay at 
The Drake again tonight?¡¨ 
¡§There wasn't time to talk about it, Ray,¡¨ she said. ¡§I can't imagine what other 
choice they'd have. It sounds like they may never get back to New York.¡¨ 
¡§I'm afraid Chicago is a certain someone's next target,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Oh, I can't imagine,¡¨ Amanda said. 
¡§I have to warn them.¡¨ 
¡§Do you want to risk a phone call that could be traced?¡¨ she asked. 
¡§Saving their lives would be worth any risk.¡¨ 
Amanda embraced him and went back to her seat. 
Rayford used his own cell phone after making sure his first officer had his own 
earphones on and was otherwise engaged. Reaching The Drake Hotel in Chicago, 
Rayford asked for the Williamses. ¡§We have three guests named Williams,¡¨ he was 
told. ¡§None with the first name of Cameron or Buck or Chloe.¡¨ 
Rayford racked his brain. ¡§Uh, just put me through to Mr. Katz then,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Herbert Katz?¡¨ the operator said. 
¡§That's the one.¡¨ 
After a minute: ¡§No answer, sir. Would you like to leave a message on their voice 
mail?¡¨ 
¡§I would,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§but I would also like to be sure that the message light is 
lit and that they are flagged down for an urgent message should they visit the front 
desk.¡¨ 
¡§We'll certainly do that, sir. Thank you for calling The Drake.¡¨ 
When the voice mail tone came on, Rayford spoke quickly. ¡§Kids, you know who 
this is. Don't take the time to do anything. Get as far away from downtown Chicago 
as you can. Please trust me on this.¡¨ 
Buck had had innumerable run-ins with Verna Zee in the Chicago office. Once he 
felt she had overstepped her bounds and had moved too quickly into her former 
boss's office after Lucinda Washington disappeared in the Rapture. Then, when 
Buck himself was demoted for ostensibly missing the most important assignment of 
his life, Verna did become Chicago bureau chief and lorded it over him. Now that 
he was the publisher, he had been tempted to fire her. But he had let her remain, 
provided she did the job and kept her nose clean. 
Even feisty Verna seemed shell-shocked when Buck swept into the office late that 
afternoon. As usual in times of international crisis, the staff was huddled around the 
TV. A couple of employees looked up when Buck came in. ¡§What do you think of 

this, chief?¡¨ one said, and several others noticed him. Verna Zee made a beeline for 
Buck. 
¡§You have several urgent messages,¡¨ she said. ¡§Carpathia himself has been trying to 
reach you all day. There's also an urgent message from a Rayford Steele.¡¨ 
Now there was a choice for all time. Whom should Buck call? He could only guess 
what spin Carpathia wanted to put on World War III. He had no idea what Rayford 
might want. ¡§Did Mr. Steele leave a number?¡¨ 
¡§You're returning his call first?¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me?¡¨ he said. ¡§I believe I asked you a question.¡¨ 
¡§His message was simply that you should call your hotel room.¡¨ 
¡§Call my hotel room?¡¨ 
¡§I would have done it for you myself, boss, but I didn't know where you were 
staying. Where are you staying?¡¨ 
¡§None of your business, Verna.¡¨ 
¡§Well, pardon me!¡¨ she said and marched away, which was Buck's hope. 
¡§I'll be borrowing your office temporarily,¡¨ Buck called after her. 
She stopped and spun around. ¡§For how long?¡¨ 
¡§For as long as I need it,¡¨ he said. She scowled. Buck rushed in and shut the door. 
He dialed The Drake and asked for his own room. Hearing the fear in Rayford's 
voice, not to mention the message itself, made the color drain from his face. Buck 
called information for the number of the Land Rover dealership in Arlington 
Heights. He asked for the sales manager and said it was an emergency. 
Within a minute, the man was on the line. As soon as Buck identified himself, the 
man said, ¡§Everything all right with the¡X¡¨ 
¡§The car is fine, sir. But I need to reach my wife, and she's driving it right now. I 
need the phone number on that built-in phone.¡¨ 
¡§That would take a little digging.¡¨ 
¡§I can't tell you how urgent this is, sir. Let me just say that it's worth my developing 
a quick case of buyer's remorse and returning the vehicle if I can't get that number 
right now.¡¨ 
¡§One moment.¡¨ 
A couple of minutes later Buck dialed the number. It rang four times. ¡§The mobile 
customer you have dialed is either away from the vehicle or out of the calling zone. 
Please try your call¡X¡¨ 
Buck slammed down the phone, picked it up, and hit the redial button. While 
listening to the ring, he was startled when the door burst open and Verna Zee 
mouthed, ¡§Carpathia on the line for you.¡¨ 

¡§I'm gonna have to call him back!¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§You're what?!¡¨ 
¡§Take a number!¡¨ 
¡§Dial 1-800-FIRED,¡¨ she said. 
Rayford was frantic. He forgot any pretense of doing anything but sitting there, and 
he stared straight ahead into the late afternoon sky, earphones firmly engaged and 
his left hand pressing the hidden button hard. He heard Carpathia's aide: ¡§Well, of 
all the¡X¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ Carpathia said. 
¡§I'm trying to get this Williams character on the line for you, and he's told his girl 
there to take a number.¡¨ 
It was all Rayford could do to keep from calling Buck again himself, knowing for 
sure now that he was at the Chicago office. But if someone told Carpathia Buck 
couldn't talk to him because he was on with Rayford Steele, that would be 
disastrous. He heard Carpathia's reassuring voice again. ¡§Just give him the number, 
my friend. I trust this young man. He is a brilliant journalist and would not keep me 
waiting without good reason. Of course, he is trying to cover the story of a lifetime, 
would you not agree?¡¨ 
Buck ordered Verna Zee to shut the door on her way out and to leave him alone 
until he was off the phone. She sighed heavily and shook her head, slamming the 
door. 
Buck continued to hit the redial button, hating the sound of that recorded 
announcement more than anything he had ever heard in his life. 
Suddenly the intercom came alive. ¡§I'm sorry to bother you,¡¨ Verna said in a sickly 
sweet, singsong voice, ¡§but you have yet another urgent phone call. Chaim 
Rosenzweig from Israel.¡¨ 
Buck punched the intercom button. ¡§I'm afraid I'm gonna have to call him back, too. 
Tell him I'm very sorry.¡¨ 
¡§You should tell me you're very sorry,¡¨ Verna said. ¡§I'm tempted to patch him 
through anyway.¡¨ 
¡§I'm very sorry, Verna,¡¨ Buck said with sarcasm. ¡§Now leave me alone, please!¡¨ 
The car phone kept ringing. Buck hung up on the recorded message several times. 
Verna punched back in. ¡§Dr. Rosenzweig says it's a matter of life and death, 
Cameron.¡¨ 
Buck quickly punched into the blinking line. ¡§Chaim, I'm very sorry, but I'm in the 
middle of an urgent matter here myself. Can't I call you back?¡¨ 

¡§Cameron! Please don't hang up on me! Israel has been spared the terrible bombings 
that your country has suffered, but Rabbi Ben-Judah's family was abducted and 
slaughtered! His house has burned to the ground. I pray he is safe, but no one knows 
where he is!¡¨ 
Buck was speechless. He hung his head. ¡§His family is gone? Are you sure?¡¨ 
¡§It was a public spectacle, Cameron. I was afraid it would come sooner or later. 
Why, oh why did he have to go public with his views about Messiah? It's one thing 
to disagree with him, as I do, a respected and trusted friend. But the religious zealots 
in this country hate a person who believes that Jesus is Messiah. Cameron, he needs 
our help. What can we do? I have not been able to get through to Nicolae.¡¨ 
¡§Chaim, do me one huge favor and leave Nicolae out of this, please!¡¨ 
¡§Cameron! Nicolae is the most powerful man in the world, and he has pledged to 
help me and to help Israel and to protect us. Surely, he will step in and preserve the 
life of a friend of mine!¡¨ 
¡§Chaim, I'm begging you to trust me on this. Leave Nicolae out of it. Now I must 
call you back. I have family members in trouble myself!¡¨ 
¡§Forgive me, Cameron! Get back to me as soon as you can.¡¨ 
Buck punched in on his original line and hit redial again. As the numbers sounded 
in his ear, Verna came on the intercom. ¡§Someone's on the line for you, but since 
you don't want to be bothered¡X¡¨ 
Chloe's car phone was busy! Buck slammed the phone down and punched in on the 
intercom. ¡§Who is it?¡¨ 
¡§I thought you didn't want to be bothered.¡¨ 
¡§Verna, I have no time for this!¡¨ 
¡§If you must know, it was your wife.¡¨ 
¡§Which line?¡¨ 
¡§Line two, but I told her you were probably on the phone with Carpathia or 
Rosenzweig.¡¨ 
¡§Where was she calling from?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know. She said she would wait for your call.¡¨ 
¡§Did she leave a number?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. It's¡X¡¨ 
When Buck heard the first two numbers, he knew it was the car phone. He turned 
off the intercom and hit the redial button. Verna poked her head in the door and 
said, ¡§I'm not a secretary, you know, and I'm certainly not your secretary!¡¨ 
Buck had never been angrier with anyone. He stared at Verna. ¡§I'm coming across 
this desk to kick that door shut. You had better not be in the way.¡¨ 

The car phone was ringing. Verna still stood there. Buck rose from his chair, phone 
still to his ear, and stepped up onto the desk and across Verna's mess of papers. Her 
eyes grew wide as he lifted his leg, and she ducked out of the way as he kicked the 
door shut with all his might. It sounded like a bomb and nearly toppled the wall 
partitions. Verna screamed. Buck almost wished she'd been in the doorway. 
¡§Buck!¡¨ came Chloe's voice from the phone. 
¡§Chloe! Where are you?¡¨ 
¡§I'm dn my way out of Chicago,¡¨ she said. ¡§I got the phones and went to The Drake, 
but there was a message for me at the desk.¡¨ 
¡§I know.¡¨ 
¡§Buck, something in Daddy's voice made me not even take the time to get anything 
from our room.¡¨ 
¡§Good!¡¨ 
¡§But your laptop and all your clothes and all your toiletries and everything I brought 
from New York¡X¡¨ 
¡§But your dad sounded serious, didn't he?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. Oh, Buck, I'm being pulled over by the police! I made a U-turn and I was 
speeding, and I went through a light, and I was even on the sidewalk for a while.¡¨ 
¡§Chloe, listen! You know the old saying about how it's easier to ask forgiveness 
than permission?¡¨ 
¡§You want me to try to outrun him?¡¨ 
¡§You'll probably be saving his life! There's only one reason your father would want 
us out of Chicago as far and as fast as possible!¡¨ 
¡§OK, Buck, pray for me! Here goes nothing!¡¨ 
¡§I'll stay on the line with you, Chloe.¡¨ 
¡§I need both hands to drive!¡¨ 
¡§Hit the speaker button and hang that phone up!¡¨ Buck said. 
But then he heard an explosion, tires squealing, a scream, and silence. Within 
seconds the electricity went off in the Global Community Weekly office. Buck felt 
his way out into the hall where battery-operated emergency lights near the ceiling 
illuminated the doors. ¡§Look at that!¡¨ someone shouted, and the staff pushed its 
way through the front doors and began climbing atop their own cars to watch a huge 
aerial attack on the city of Chicago. 
Rayford clandestinely listened in horror as Carpathia announced to his compatriots, 
¡§Chicago should be under retaliatory attack, even as we speak. Thank you for your 
part in this, and for the strategic nonuse of radioactive fallout. I have many loyal 

employees in that area, and though I expect to lose some in the initial attack, I need 
not lose any to radiation to make my point.¡¨ 
Someone else spoke up. ¡§Shall we watch the news?¡¨ 
¡§Good idea,¡¨ Carpathia said. Rayford could remain seated no longer. He didn't 
know what he would say or do, if anything, but he simply could not stay in that 
cockpit, not knowing whether his loved ones were safe. He entered the cabin as the 
television was coming on, showing the first images from Chicago. Amanda gasped. 
Rayford went and sat with her to watch. ¡§Would you go to Chicago for me?¡¨ 
Rayford whispered. 
¡§If you think I would be safe.¡¨ 
¡§There's no radiation.¡¨ 
¡§How do you know that?¡¨ 
¡§I'll tell you later. Just tell me you'll go if I can get permission from Carpathia to 
have you fly out of San Francisco.¡¨ 
¡§I'll do anything for you, Rayford. You know that.¡¨ 
¡§Listen to me, sweetheart. If you can't get an immediate flight, and I mean before 
this plane leaves the ground again, you must reboard the Condor. Do you 
understand?¡¨ 
¡§I understand, but why?¡¨ 
¡§I can't tell you now. Just get an immediate flight to Milwaukee if I can get it 
cleared. If the plane is not airborne before we are¡X¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ 
¡§Just be sure, Amanda. I couldn't bear losing you.¡¨ 
Following the news from Chicago, the cable news channel broke for a commercial, 
and Rayford approached Carpathia. ¡§Sir, may I have a moment?¡¨ 
¡§Certainly, Captain. Awful news out of Chicago, is it not?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir, it is. In fact, that's what I wanted to talk to you about. You know I have 
family in that area.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, and I hope they are all safe,¡¨ Carpathia said. 
Rayford wanted to kill him where he sat. He knew full well the man was the 
Antichrist, and he also knew that this very person would be assassinated one day 
and be resurrected from the dead by Satan himself. Rayford had never dreamed he 
might be an agent in that assassination, but at that instant he would have applied for 
the job. He fought for composure. Whoever killed this man would be merely a pawn 
in a huge cosmic game. The assassination and resurrection would only make 
Carpathia more powerful and satanic than ever. 
¡§Sir,¡¨ Rayford continued, ¡§I was wondering if it would be possible for my wife to 

deplane in San Francisco and head back to Chicago to check on my people.¡¨ 
¡§I would be happy to have my staff check on them,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§if you will 
simply give me their addresses.¡¨ 
¡§I would really feel a lot better if she could be there with them to help as needed.¡¨ 
¡§As you wish,¡¨ Carpathia said, and it was all Rayford could do not to breathe a huge 
sigh of relief in the man's face. 
¡§Who's got a cell phone I can borrow?¡¨ Buck shouted over the din in the parking lot 
of Global Community Weekly. 
A woman next to him thrust one into his hands, and he was shocked to realize she 
was Verna Zee. ¡§I need to make some long-distance calls,¡¨ he said quickly. ¡§Can I 
skip all the codes and just pay you back?¡¨ 
¡§Don't worry about it, Cameron. Our little feud just got insignificant.¡¨ 
¡§I need to borrow a car!¡¨ Buck shouted. But it quickly became clear that everyone 
was heading to their own places to check on loved ones and assess the damage. 
¡§How about a ride to Mt. Prospect?¡¨ 
¡§I'll take you,¡¨ Verna muttered. ¡§I don't even want to see what's happening in the 
other direction.¡¨ 
¡§You live in the city, don't you?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I did until about five minutes ago,¡¨ Verna said. 
¡§Maybe you got lucky.¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, if that big blast was nuclear, none of us will last the week.¡¨ 
¡§I might know a place you can stay in Mt. Prospect,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I'd be grateful,¡¨ she said. 
Verna went back inside to gather up her stuff. Buck waited in her car, making his 
phone calls. He started with his own father out west. ¡§I'm so glad you called,¡¨ his 
father said. ¡§I tried calling New York for hours.¡¨ 
¡§Dad, it's a mess here. I'm left with the clothes on my back, and I don't have much 
time to talk. I just called to make sure everybody was all right. ¡¨ 
¡§Your brother and I are doing all right here,¡¨ Buck's dad said. ¡§He's still grieving 
the loss of his family, of course, but we're all right.¡¨ 
¡§Dad, the wheels are coming off of this country. You're not gonna really be all right 
until¡X¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, let's not get into this again, OK? I know what you believe, and if it gives 
you comfort¡X¡¨ 
¡§Dad! It gives me little comfort right now. It kills me that I was so late coming to 
the truth. I've already lost too many loved ones. I don't want to lose you too.¡¨ 

His father chuckled, maddening Buck. ¡§You're not going to lose me, big boy. 
Nobody seems to want to even attack us out here. We feel a little neglected.¡¨ 
¡§Dad! Millions are dying. Don't be glib about this.¡¨ 
¡§So, how's that new wife of yours? Are we ever gonna get to meet her?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know, Dad. I don't know exactly where she is right now, and I don't know 
whether you'll ever get the chance to meet her.¡¨ 
¡§You ashamed of your own father?¡¨ 
¡§It's not that at all, Dad. I need to make sure she's all right, and we're going to have 
to try to get out that way somehow. Find a good church there, Dad. Find somebody 
who can explain to you what's going on.¡¨ 
¡§I can't think of anybody more qualified than you, Cameron. And you're just gonna 
have to let me ruminate on this myself.¡¨ 
CHAPTER FOUR 
RAYFORD heard Carpathia's people setting up for his broadcast. ¡§Is there any way 
anyone will be able to tell we are airborne?¡¨ Carpathia asked. 
¡§None,¡¨ he was assured. Rayford wasn't so sure, but certainly, unless Carpathia 
made some colossal error, no one would have a clue precisely where in the air he 
was. 
At the sound of a knock on the cockpit door, Rayford shut off the hidden button and 
turned expectantly. It was a Carpathia aide. ¡§Do whatever you have to do to shut 
down all interference and patch us back through to Dallas. We go live on satellite in 
about three minutes, and the potentate should be able to be heard everywhere in the 
world.¡¨ 
Yippee, Rayford thought. 
Buck was on the phone with Loretta when Verna Zee slipped behind the wheel. She 
slung her oversized bag onto the seat behind her, then had trouble fastening her seat 
belt, she was shaking so. Buck shut off the phone. ¡§Verna, are you all right? I just 
talked with a woman from our church who has a room and private bath for you.¡¨ 
A mini traffic jam dissipated as Verna and Buck's coworkers wended their way out 
of the small parking lot. Headlights provided the only illumination in the area. 
¡§Cameron, why are you doing this for me?¡¨ 
¡§Why not? You lent me your phone.¡¨ 
¡§But I've been so awful to you.¡¨ 

¡§And I've responded in kind. I'm sorry, Verna. This is the last time in the world we 
should care so much about getting our own way.¡¨ 
Verna started the car but sat with her face in her hands. ¡§You want me to drive?¡¨ 
Buck asked. ¡§No, just give me a minute.¡¨ 
Buck told her of his urgency to locate a vehicle and try to find Chloe. 
¡§Cameron! You must be frantic!¡¨ 
¡§Frankly, I am.¡¨ 
She unlatched her seat belt and reached for the door handle. ¡§Take my car, 
Cameron. Do whatever you have to do.¡¨ 
¡§No,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I'll let you lend me your car, but let's get you settled first.¡¨ 
¡§You may not have a minute to spare.¡¨ 
¡§All I can do is trust God at this point,¡¨ Buck said. 
He pointed Verna in the right direction. She sped to the edge of Mt. Prospect and 
slid up to the curb in front of Loretta's beautiful, rambling, old home. Verna did not 
allow Buck to even take the time to make introductions. She said, ¡§We all know 
who each other is, so let's let Cameron get going.¡¨ 
¡§I arranged for a car for you,¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§It should be here in a few minutes.¡¨ 
¡§I'll take Verna's for now, but I sure appreciate it.¡¨ 
¡§Keep the phone as long as you need it,¡¨ Verna said, as Loretta welcomed her. 
Buck pushed the driver's seat all the way back and adjusted the mirror. He punched 
in the number he'd been given for Nicolae Carpathia and tried to return that call. 
The phone was answered by an aide. ¡§I'll tell him you returned his call, Mr. 
Williams, but he's conducting an international broadcast just now. You might want 
to tune it in.¡¨ 
Buck whipped on the radio while racing toward the only route he could imagine 
Chloe taking to escape Chicago. 
¡§Ladies and gentlemen, from an unknown location, we bring you, live, Global 
Community Potentate Nicolae Carpathia.¡¨ 
Rayford swung around in his chair and propped open the cockpit door. The plane 
was on autopilot, and both he and his first officer sat watching as Carpathia 
addressed the world. The potentate looked amused as he was being introduced and 
winked at a couple of his ambassadors. He pretended to lick his finger and smooth 
his eyebrows, as if primping for his audience. The others stifled chuckles. Rayford 
wished he had a weapon. 
On cue, Carpathia mustered his most emotional voice. ¡§Brothers and sisters of the 
Global Community, I am speaking to you with the greatest heaviness of heart I have 
ever known. I am a man of peace who has been forced to retaliate with arms against 
international terrorists who would jeopardize the cause of harmony and fraternity. 

You may rest assured that I grieve with you over the loss of loved ones, of friends, 
of acquaintances. The horrible toll of civilian lives should haunt these enemies of 
peace for the rest of their days. 
¡§As you know, most of the ten world regions that comprise the Global Community 
destroyed 90 percent of their weapon hardware. We have spent nearly the last two 
years breaking down, packaging, shipping, receiving, and reassembling this 
hardware in New Babylon. My humble prayer was that we would never have had to 
use it. 
¡§However, wise counselors persuaded me to stockpile storehouses of 
technologically superior weapons in strategic locations around the globe. I confess I 
did this against my will, and my optimistic and overly positive view of the goodness 
of mankind has proven faulty. 
¡§I am grateful that somehow I allowed myself to be persuaded to keep these 
weapons at the ready. In my wildest dreams, I never would have imagined that I 
would have to make the difficult decision to turn this power against enemies on a 
broad scale. By now you must know that two former members of the exclusive 
Global Community executive council have viciously and wantonly conspired to 
revolt against my administration, and another carelessly allowed militia forces in his 
region to do the same. These forces were led by the now late president of the United 
States of North America Gerald Fitzhugh, trained by the American militia, and 
supported also by secretly stored weapons from the United States of Great Britain 
and the formerly sovereign country of Egypt. 
¡§While I should never have to defend my reputation as an antiwar activist, I am 
pleased to inform you that we have retaliated severely and with dispatch. Anywhere 
that Global Community weaponry was employed, it was aimed specifically at rebel 
military locations. I assure you that all civilian casualties and the destruction of 
great populated cities in North America and around the world was the work of the 
rebellion. 
¡§There are no more plans for counterattacks by Global Community forces. We will 
respond only as necessary and pray that our enemies understand that they have no 
future. They cannot succeed. They will be utterly destroyed. 
¡§I know that in a time of global war such as this, most of us live in fear and grief. I 
can assure you that I am with you in your grief but that my fear has been overcome 
by confidence that the majority of the global community is together, heart and soul, 
against the enemies of peace. 
¡§As soon as I am convinced of security and safety, I will address you via satellite 
television and the Internet. I will communicate frequently so you know exactly what 
is going on and will see that we are making enormous strides toward rebuilding our 
world. You may rest assured that as we reconstruct and reorganize, we will enjoy 
the greatest prosperity and the most wonderful home this earth can afford. May we 
all work together for the common goal.¡¨ 

While Carpathia's aides and ambassadors nodded and clapped him on the back, 
Rayford caught Amanda's eye and resolutely shut the cockpit door. 
Verna Zee's car was a junky old import. It was rattly and drafty, a four-cylinder 
automatic. In short, it was a dog. Buck decided to test its limits and reimburse 
Verna later, if necessary. He sped to the Kennedy and headed toward the Edens 
junction, trying to guess how far Chloe might have gotten from The Drake in heavy 
traffic that would now be impassable. 
What he didn't know was whether she would take Lake Shore Drive (which locals 
referred to as the LSD) or the Kennedy. This was more her bailiwick than his, but 
his question soon became moot. Chicago was in flames, and most of the drivers of 
cars that clogged the Kennedy in both directions stood on the pavement gaping at 
the holocaust. Buck would have given anything to have had the Range Rover at that 
moment. 
When he whipped Verna's little pile of junk onto the shoulder, he found he wasn't 
alone. Traffic laws and civility went out the window at a time like this, and there 
was almost as much traffic off the road as on. He had no choice. Buck had no idea 
whether he was destined to survive the entire seven years of the Tribulation anyway, 
and he could think of only one better reason to die than trying to rescue the love of 
his life. 
Ever since he had become a believer, Buck had considered the privilege of giving 
his life in the service of God. In his mind, regardless of what really killed Bruce, he 
believed Bruce was a martyr to the cause. Risking his life in traffic may not have 
been as altruistic as that, but one thing he was sure of: Chloe would not have 
hesitated had the shoe been on the other foot. 
The biggest jam-ups came at the bridge overpasses, where the shoulders ended and 
those fighting to go around stalled traffic had to take turns picking their way 
through. Angry motorists rightfully tried to block their paths. Buck couldn't blame 
them. He would have done the same in their places. 
He had stored the number of the phone in the Range Rover and continued to redial 
every chance he got. Every time he first heard a hint of the message ¡§The mobile 
customer you have called¡X¡¨, he disconnected and tried again. 
Just before the initial descent into San Francisco, Rayford huddled with Amanda. 
¡§I'm gonna get that door open and get you off this plane as soon as possible,¡¨ he 
said. ¡§I'm not going to wait for the postflight checklist or anything. Don't forget, it's 
imperative that whatever flight you find is off the ground before we are.¡¨ 
¡§But why, Ray?¡¨ 
¡§Just trust me, Amanda. You know I have your best interests in mind. As soon as 
you can, call me on my universal cell phone and let me know Chloe and Buck are 

all right.¡¨ 
Buck left the expressway and picked his way through side streets for more than an 
hour until reaching Evanston. By the time he got to Sheridan Road along the lake, 
he found it barricaded but not guarded. Apparently every law enforcement officer 
and emergency medical technician was busy. He thought about ramming one of the 
construction horses, but didn't want to do that to Verna's car. He stepped out and 
moved the horse enough to drive through. He was going to leave the opening there, 
but someone hollered from an apartment, ¡§Hey! What are you doing?¡¨ 
Buck looked up and waved in the direction of the voice. ¡§Press!¡¨ he shouted. 
¡§All right, then! Carry on!¡¨ 
To make himself look more legitimate, Buck took the time to get out of the car and 
replace the barrier before driving on. He saw the occasional police car with lights 
flashing and some uniformed men standing at side streets. Buck merely put on his 
emergency flashers and kept going. No one stood in his way. No one drew down on 
him. No one so much as shined a light at him. To Buck it seemed as if they assumed 
that if he had gone to the trouble of getting so deep into a prohibited area and was 
now proceeding with such confidence, he must be all right. He could hardly believe 
how clear the sailing was with all the arteries leading into Sheridan Road blocked 
off. The question now was what he would find on Lake Shore Drive. 
Frustrated was too mild a word for the way Rayford felt as he landed the Condor 
216 in San Francisco and taxied to a private jetway. There he sat with the 
unenviable task of carrying Antichrist himself wherever he wanted to go. Carpathia 
had just told bald-faced lies to the largest audience that had ever listened to a single 
radio broadcast. Rayford knew beyond doubt that shortly after takeoff toward New 
Babylon, San Francisco would be devastated from the air the same way Chicago 
had been. People would die. Business and industry would crumble. Transportation 
centers would be destroyed, including that very airport. Rayford's first order of 
business was to get Amanda off that plane and out of that airport and into the 
Chicago area. He didn't even want to wait for the jetway to be maneuvered out to 
the plane. He opened the door himself and lowered the telescoping stairs to the 
runway. He motioned for Amanda to hurry. Carpathia made some farewell small 
talk as she hurried past, and Rayford was grateful that she merely thanked the man 
and kept moving. Ground personnel waved at Rayford and tried to get him to pull 
the stairs back up. He shouted, ¡§We have one passenger who needs to make a 
connection!¡¨ 
Rayford embraced Amanda and whispered, ¡§I checked with the tower. There's a 
flight to Milwaukee leaving from a gate at the end of this corridor in less than 
twenty minutes. Make sure you're on it.¡¨ Rayford kissed Amanda and she hurried 
down the steps. 
He saw the ground crew waiting for him to pull the stairs back up so they could get 

the jetway into position. He could think of no legitimate reason to stall, so he simply 
ignored them, walked back into the cockpit, and began postflight checks. 
¡§What's going on?¡¨ his copilot asked. ¡§I want to switch places with your guy as 
soon as I can.¡¨ 
If you only knew what you were walking into, Rayford thought. ¡§Where are you 
headed tonight?¡¨ 
¡§What possible business is that of yours?¡¨ the young man said. 
Rayford shrugged. He felt like the little Dutch boy with his thumb in the dike. He 
couldn't save everyone. Could he save anyone? A Carpathia aide poked his head 
into the cockpit. ¡§Captain Steele, you're being summoned by the ground crew.¡¨ 
¡§I'll handle it, sir. They'll have to wait for our postflight check. You realize that with 
a new plane there's a lot we need to be sure of before we attempt a trans-Pacific 
flight.¡¨ 
¡§Well, we've got McCullum waiting to board, and we've got a full flight crew 
waiting besides. We'd kind of like to have some service.¡¨ 
Rayford tried to sound cheery. ¡§Safety first.¡¨ 
¡§Well, hurry it up!¡¨ 
While the first officer double-checked items on his clipboard, Rayford checked with 
the tower on the status of the outbound flight to Milwaukee. ¡§Behind schedule 
about twelve minutes, Condor 216. It shouldn't affect you.¡¨ 
But it will, Rayford thought. 
Rayford stepped into the cabin. ¡§Excuse me, sir, but isn't Mr. Fortunato joining us 
for the next leg of the flight?¡¨ 
¡§Yes,¡¨ an aide said. ¡§He left Dallas half an hour after we did, so he shouldn't be 
long.¡¨ 
He will be if I can help it. 
Buck finally hit the brick wall he knew would be inevitable. He had bounced over a 
couple of curbs and couldn't avoid smashing one traffic barrier where Sheridan 
Road jogged to meet Lake Shore Drive. All along the Drive he saw cars off the 
road, emergency vehicles with lights flashing, and disaster relief specialists trying to 
flag him down. He floored Verna Zee's little car, and no one dared step in front of 
him. He had most of the lanes open all the way down the Drive, but he heard people 
shouting, ¡§Stop! Road closed!¡¨ 
The radio told him that gridlock within the city proper had ground all fleeing traffic 
to a halt. One report said it had been that way since the moment of the first blast. 
Buck wished he had time to scan the exits that led to the beach. There were plenty 
of places where a Range Rover might have left the road, crashed, or been hidden. If 

it became clear to Chloe that she could not have made any decent time by heading 
to the Kennedy or the Eisenhower from The Drake, she might have tried the LSD. 
But as Buck got to the Michigan Avenue exit that would have taken him within 
sight of The Drake, he would have had to kill someone or go airborne to go any 
farther. The barricade that shut down Lake Shore Drive and the exit looked like 
something from the set of Les Miserables. Squad cars, ambulances, fire trucks, 
construction and traffic horses, caution lights, you name it, were stretched across the 
entire area, manned by a busy force of emergency workers. Buck came to a 
screeching halt, swerving and sliding about fifty feet before his right front tire blew. 
The car spun as emergency workers danced out of the way. 
Several swore at him, and a woman police officer advanced, gun drawn. Buck 
started to get out, but she said, ¡§Stay right where you are, pal!¡¨ Buck lowered the 
window with one hand and reached for his press credentials with the other. The 
policewoman would have none of that. She thrust her weapon through the window 
and pressed it to his temple. ¡§Both hands where I can see 'em, scumbag!¡¨ She 
opened the door, and Buck executed the difficult procedure of getting out of a small 
car without the use of his hands. She made him lie flat on the pavement, spreadeagle. 
Two other officers joined the first and roughly frisked Buck. 
¡§Any guns, knives, needles?¡¨ 
Buck went on the offensive. ¡§Nope, just two sets of IDs.¡¨ 
The cops pulled a wallet out of each of his back pockets, one containing his own 
papers, the other the documents of the fictitious Herb Katz. 
¡§So, which one are you, and what's the deal?¡¨ 
¡§I'm Cameron Williams, publisher of Global Community Weekly. I report directly 
to the potentate. The phony ID is to help me get into unsympathetic countries.¡¨ 
A young, slender cop pulled Buck's real ID wallet from the hands of the woman 
officer. ¡§Let me just have a look at this,¡¨ he said with sarcasm. ¡§If you really report 
to Nicolae Carpathia, you'd have level 2-A clearance, and I don't see¡Xoops, I guess 
I do see level 2-A security clearance here.¡¨ 
The three officers huddled to peer at the unusual identification card. ¡§You know, 
carrying phony 2-A security clearance is punishable by death¡X¡¨ 
¡§Yes, I do.¡¨ 
¡§We aren't even going to be able to run your license plate, with the computers so 
jammed.¡¨ 
¡§I can tell you right now,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§that I borrowed this car from a friend named 
Zee. You can check that for sure before you have it junked.¡¨ 
¡§You can't leave this car here!¡¨ 
¡§What am I gonna do with it?¡¨ Buck said. ¡§It's worthless, it's got a flat tire, and 

there's no way we're gonna find help for that tonight.¡¨ 
¡§Or for the next two weeks, most likely,¡¨ one of the cops said. ¡§So, where were you 
goin' in such an all-fired hurry?¡¨ 
¡§The Drake.¡¨ 
¡§Where have you been, pal? Don't you listen to the news? Most of Michigan 
Avenue is toast.¡¨ 
¡§Including The Drake?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know about that, but it can't be in too good a shape by now.¡¨ 
¡§If I walk up over that rise and get onto Michigan Avenue on foot, am I gonna die 
of radiation poisoning?¡¨ 
¡§Civil Defense guys tell us there's no fallout readings. That means this must have 
been done by the militia, trying to spare as much human life as possible. Anyway, if 
those bombs had been nuclear, the radiation would have traveled a lot farther than 
this already.¡¨ 
¡§True enough,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Am I free to go?¡¨ 
¡§No guarantees you'll get past the guards on Michigan Avenue.¡¨ 
¡§I'll take my chances.¡¨ 
¡§Your best bet is with that clearance card. I sure hope it's legit, for your sake.¡¨ 
Rayford couldn't stall the ground crew any longer, at least by merely ignoring them. 
He pulled the stairs in as if to receive the jetway, but did not fully move them out of 
the way, knowing that the jetway would never connect. Rather than stay and watch, 
he returned to the cockpit and busied himself. I don't even want fuel before 
Amanda's plane is off the ground. 
It was a full fifteen minutes before Rayford's usual copilot switched places with his 
temporary one, and a full flight service crew entered the plane. Every time the 
ground crew radioed Rayford that they were ready to begin refueling, he told them 
he wasn't ready. Finally, an exasperated laborer barked into his radio, ¡§What's the 
holdup up there, chief? I was told this was a VIP plane that needed fast service.¡¨ 
¡§You were told wrong. This is a cargo plane, and it's a new one. We've got a 
learning curve in the cockpit, plus we're switching crews. Just hold tight. Don't call 
us, we'll call you.¡¨ 
Rayford breathed a sigh of relief twenty minutes later when he discovered that 
Amanda's plane was en route to Milwaukee. Now he could refuel, play it by the 
book, and settle in for the long flight over the Pacific. 
¡§Some plane, huh?¡¨ McCullum said as he checked out the cockpit. 
¡§Some plane,¡¨ Rayford agreed. ¡§It's been a long day for me, Mac. I'd appreciate a 

good, long snooze once we get her on course.¡¨ 
¡§My pleasure, Cap. You can sleep the night away for all I care. You want me to 
come in and wake you for initial descent?¡¨ 
¡§I'm not quite confident enough to leave the cockpit,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§I'll be right 
here if you need me.¡¨ 
It suddenly hit Buck that he had taken a huge risk. It wouldn't be long before Verna 
Zee learned that he had, at least at one time, been a full-fledged member of New 
Hope Village Church. He had been so careful about not taking a leadership role 
there, not speaking in public, not being known to very many people. Now, one of 
his own employees¡Xand a long-standing enemy at that¡Xwould have knowledge 
that could ruin him, even cost him his life. 
He called Loretta's home on Verna's phone. ¡§Loretta,¡¨ he said, ¡§I need to speak with 
Verna.¡¨ 
¡§She's quite distraught just now,¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§I hope you're prayin' for this girl.¡¨ 
¡§I certainly will,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§How are you two getting along?¡¨ 
¡§As well as can be expected for two complete strangers,¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§I'm just 
tellin' her my story, as I assumed you wanted me to.¡¨ 
Buck was silent. Finally, he said, ¡§Put her on, would you, Loretta?¡¨ 
She did, and Buck got straight to the point. ¡§Verna, you need a new car.¡¨ 
¡§Oh no! Cameron, what happened?¡¨ 
¡§It's only a flat tire, Verna, but it's going to be impossible to get fixed for several 
days, and I don't think your car is worth worrying about.¡¨ 
¡§Well, thanks a lot!¡¨ 
¡§How 'bout I replace it with a better car?¡¨ 
¡§I can't argue with that,¡¨ she muttered. 
¡§I promise. Now, Verna, I'm going to abandon this vehicle. Is there anything you 
need out pf it?¡¨ 
¡§Nothing I can think of. There is a hairbrush I really like in the glove box.¡¨ 
¡§Verna!¡¨ 
¡§That does seem a little trivial in light of everything.¡¨ 
¡§No documents, personal belongings, hidden money, anything like that?¡¨ 
¡§No. Just do what you gotta do. It would be nice if I didn't get in trouble for this.¡¨ 
¡§I'll leave word with the authorities that when they get around to it they can tow this 
car to any junkyard and trade whatever the yard gives them for it for the towing 
fee.¡¨ 

¡§Cameron,¡¨ Verna whispered, ¡§this woman is one strange, old bird.¡¨ 
¡§I don't have time to discuss that with you now, Verna. But give her a chance. She's 
sweet. And she is providing shelter.¡¨ 
¡§No, you misunderstand. I'm not saying she isn't wonderful. I'm just saying she's got 
some really strange ideas.¡¨ 
As Buck scrambled over an embankment to bring Michigan Avenue into view, he 
fulfilled his promise to Loretta that he would pray for Verna. Exactly how to pray, 
he didn't know. Either she becomes a believer, or I'm dead. 
All Buck could think of as he came into sight of the dozens of bombed-out 
buildings along Michigan Avenue and knew that they continued almost the entire 
length of the Magnificent Mile, was his experience in Israel when Russia had 
attacked. He could imagine the sound of the bombs and the searing heat of the 
flames, but in that instance the Holy Land had been miraculously delivered from 
damage. There was no such intervention here. He hit the redial button on Verna's 
phone, forgetting that he had last called Loretta, not the cell phone in the Range 
Rover. 
When he did not get the usual recording about the ¡§mobile customer you have 
called,¡¨ he stood still and prayed Chloe would answer. When it was Loretta, he was 
speechless at first. 
¡§Hello? Is anyone there?¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry, Loretta,¡¨ he said. ¡§Wrong number.¡¨ 
¡§I'm glad you called, Buck. Verna was about to call you.¡¨ 
¡§About what?¡¨ 
¡§I'll let her tell you.¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, I called the office. A few people are still there, monitoring things and 
promising to lock up when they're finished. Anyway, there were a couple of phone 
messages for you.¡¨ 
¡§From Chloe?¡¨ 
¡§No, I'm sorry. There was one from Dr. Rosenzweig in Israel. Another was from a 
man claiming to be your father-in-law. And another from a Miss White, who says 
she needs to be picked up at Mitchell Field in Milwaukee at midnight.¡¨ 
Miss White? Buck thought. Crafty of Amanda to keep hidden how connected our 
little family has become. 
¡§Thanks, Verna. Got it.¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, how are you going to pick anyone up in Milwaukee without a vehicle?¡¨ 
¡§I've still got a few hours to figure that out. Right now that much time seems like a 
luxury.¡¨ 

¡§Loretta has offered her car, provided I'm willing to drive,¡¨ Verna said. 
¡§I hope that won't be necessary,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§But I appreciate it. I'll let you know.¡¨ 
Buck didn't feel much like a journalist, standing in the midst of the chaos. He should 
have been drinking it all in, impressing it upon his brain, asking questions of people 
who seemed to be in charge. But no one seemed in charge. Everyone was working. 
And Buck didn't care whether he could translate this into a story or not. His 
magazine, along with every other major media outlet, was controlled, if not owned, 
by Nicolae Carpathia. As much as he strived to keep things objective, everything 
seemed to come out with the spin of the master deceiver. The worst part was, 
Nicolae was good at it. Of course, he had to be. It was his very nature. Buck just 
hated the idea that he himself was being used to spread propaganda and lies that 
people were eating like ice cream. 
Most of all though, right now, right here, he cared about nothing but Chloe. He had 
allowed the thought to invade his mind that he might have lost her. He knew he 
would see her again at the end of the Tribulation, but would he have the will to go 
on without her? She had become the center of his life, around which everything else 
revolved. During the short time they had been together, she had proved more than 
he ever could have hoped for in a wife. It was true they were bound in a common 
cause, that made them look past the insignificant and the petty, which seemed to get 
in so many other couples' way. But he sensed she would never have been catty or a 
nag anyway. She was selfless and loving. She trusted him and supported him 
completely. He would not stop until he found her. And until he knew for sure, he 
would never believe her dead. 
Buck dialed the number in the Range Rover. How many dozens of times had he 
done this now? He knew the routine by heart. When he got a busy signal, his knees 
nearly buckled. Had he dialed the right number? He'd had to punch it in anew 
because redial would have given him Loretta's home again. He stopped dead on the 
sidewalk, mayhem all around him, and with fingers shaking, carefully and 
resolutely punched in the numbers. He pressed the phone to his ear. ¡§The mobile 
customer you have called¡X¡¨ Buck swore and gripped Verna's phone so tightly he 
thought it might break. He took a step and pulled his arm back as if to fire the 
blasted machine into the side of a building. He followed through but hung onto the 
phone, realizing it would be the stupidest thing he had ever done. He shook his head 
at the word that had burst from his lips when that cursed recording had come on. So, 
the old nature is still just under the surface. 
He was mad at himself. How, in such dire circumstances, could he have dialed the 
wrong number? 
Though he knew he would hear that recording again and that he would hate it as 
never before, he couldn't keep himself from hitting the redial button yet again. Now 
the line was busy! Was it a malfunction? Some cruel cosmic joke? Or was 
somebody, somewhere, trying to use that phone? 

There was no guarantee it was Chloe. It could be anyone. It could be a cop. It could 
be an emergency worker. It could be someone who found her wrecked Range 
Rover. 
No, he would not allow himself to believe that. Chloe was alive. Chloe was trying 
to call him. But where would she call? No one was at the church. For all he knew, 
no one was still at the Global Community Weekly office. Did Chloe know Loretta's 
number? It would be easy enough to get. The question was whether he should try 
calling the places she might have called, or just keep redialing her number in hopes 
of catching her between calls. 
The senior flight attendant of a crew that was two-thirds as many people as the 
entire passenger list rapped on the cockpit door and opened it as Rayford taxied 
slowly down the runway. ¡§Captain,¡¨ she said as he lifted the headphone from his 
right ear, ¡§not everyone is seated and buckled in.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I'm not going to stop,¡¨ he said. ¡§Can't you handle it?¡¨ 
¡§The offending party, sir, is Mr. Carpathia himself.¡¨ 
¡§I don't have jurisdiction over him,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§And neither do you.¡¨ 
¡§Federal Aviation Administration rules require that¡X¡¨ 
¡§In case you haven't noticed, 'federal anything' means nothing anymore. Everything 
is global. And Carpathia is above global. If he doesn't want to sit down, he can 
stand. I've made my announcement, and you have given your instructions, right?¡¨ 
¡§Right.¡¨ 
¡§Then you go get strapped in and let the potentate worry about himself.¡¨ 
¡§If you say so, Captain. But if this plane is as powerful as a 757, I wouldn't want to 
be standing when you accelerate¡X¡¨ 
But Rayford had replaced his earphones and was getting the plane into position for 
takeoff. As he awaited instructions from the tower, Rayford surreptitiously slipped 
his left hand beneath the seat and depressed the intercom button. Someone was 
asking Carpathia if he didn't want to sit down. Rayford was aware of McCullum 
looking at him expectantly, as if he had heard something through his earphones that 
Rayford had not. Rayford quickly released the intercom button and heard 
McCullum say, ¡§We have clearance, Cap. We can roll.¡¨ Rayford could have begun 
gradually and slowly picked up enough speed to go airborne. But everybody 
enjoyed a powerful takeoff once in a while, right? He throttled up and took off 
down the runway with such speed and power that he and McCullum were driven 
back into their seats. 
¡§Yeehaa!¡¨ McCullum cried. ¡§Ride 'em cowboy!¡¨ 
Rayford had a lot to think about, and taking off for only the second time in a new 
aircraft, he should have remained focused on the task at hand. But he couldn't resist 

pressing that intercom button again and hearing what he might have done to 
Carpathia. In his mind's eye he pictured the man somersaulting all the way to the 
back of the plane, and he only wished there was a back door he could open from the 
cockpit. 
¡§Oh, my goodness!¡¨ he heard over the intercom. ¡§Potentate, are you all right?¡¨ 
Rayford heard movement, as if others were trying to unstrap themselves to help 
Carpathia, but with the plane still hurtling down the runway, those people would be 
pinned in their seats by centrifugal force. 
¡§I am all right,¡¨ Carpathia insisted. ¡§It is my own fault. I will be fine.¡¨ 
Rayford turned off the intercom and concentrated on his takeoff. Secretly, he hoped 
Carpathia had been leaning against one of the seats at the time of the initial thrust. 
That would have spun him around and nearly flipped him over. Probably my last 
chance to inflict any justice. 
No one paid attention to Buck anyway, but still, he didn't want to be conspicuous. 
He ducked around a corner and stood in the shadows, punching the redial button 
over and over, not wanting a second to pass between calls if Chloe was using her 
phone. Somehow, in the brief moment it took between hearing that busy signal and 
hanging up and punching redial again, his own phone rang. Buck shouted, ¡§Hello! 
Chloe?¡¨ before he had even hit the receive button. His fingers were shaking so 
badly he nearly dropped the phone. He pushed the button and shouted, ¡§Chloe?¡¨ 
¡§No, Cameron, it's Verna. But I just heard from the office that Chloe tried to reach 
you there.¡¨ 
¡§Did somebody give her the number of this phone?¡¨ 
¡§No. They didn't know you had my phone.¡¨ 
¡§I'm trying to call her now, Verna. The line is busy.¡¨ 
¡§Keep trying, Cameron. She didn't say where she was or how she was, but at least 
you know she's alive.¡¨ 
¡§Thank God for that!¡¨ 
CHAPTER FIVE 
BUCK wanted to jump or shout or run somewhere, but he didn't know where to go. 
Knowing Chloe was alive was the best news he'd ever had, but now he wanted to 
act on it. He kept pushing the redial button and getting that busy signal. 
Suddenly his phone rang again. 
¡§Chloe!¡¨ 

¡§No, sorry, Cameron, it's Verna again.¡¨ 
¡§Verna, please! I'm trying to reach Chloe!¡¨ 
¡§Calm down, big boy. She got through to the Weekly office again. Now, listen up. 
Where are you now and where have you been?¡¨ 
¡§I'm on Michigan Avenue near Water Tower Place, or what used to be Water Tower 
Place.¡¨ 
¡§How did you get there?¡¨ 
¡§Sheridan to Lake Shore Drive.¡¨ 
¡§OK,¡¨ Verna said. ¡§Chloe told somebody in our office that she's the other way on 
Lake Shore Drive.¡¨ 
¡§The other way?¡¨ 
¡§That's all I know, Cameron. You're gonna need to look off the road, lakeside, the 
other way from where you might expect on Lake Shore Drive.¡¨ 
Buck was already moving that way as he spoke. ¡§I don't see how she could have 
gotten onto the lakeside if she was heading south on the Drive.¡¨ 
¡§I don't know either,¡¨ Verna said. ¡§Maybe she was hoping to go around everything 
by heading that way, saw that she couldn't, and popped a U-turn.¡¨ 
¡§Tell anybody who hears from her that she should stay off the phone until I can 
connect. She's gonna have to direct me right to her, if possible.¡¨ 
Any remaining doubts Rayford Steele had about the incredible and instant evil 
power that Nicolae Carpathia wielded were eradicated a few minutes after the 
Condor 216 left the ground at San Francisco International. Through the privately 
bugged intercom he heard one of Carpathia's aides ask, ¡§Now, sir, on San 
Francisco?¡¨ 
¡§Trigger,¡¨ came the whispered reply. 
The aide, obviously speaking into a phone, said simply, ¡§It's a go.¡¨ 
¡§Look out the window on that side,¡¨ Carpathia said, the excitement obvious in his 
voice. ¡§Look at that!¡¨ Rayford was tempted to turn the plane so he could see too, 
but this was something he would rather try to forget than have visually burned into 
his memory. He and McCullum looked at each other as their earphones came alive 
with startled cries from the control tower. ¡§Mayday! Mayday! We're being attacked 
from the air!¡¨ The concussions knocked out communications, but Rayford knew the 
bombs themselves would easily take out that whole tower, not to mention the rest of 
the airport and who knew what portion of the surrounding area. 
Rayford didn't know how much longer he could take being the devil's own pilot. 

Buck was in reasonably good shape for a man in his early thirties, but now his joints 
ached and his lungs pleaded for air as he sprinted to Chicago Avenue and headed 
east toward the lake. How far south might Chloe have gotten before turning around? 
She had to turn around. Otherwise, how could she have gone off the road and 
wound up on that side? 
When he finally got to the Drive, he found it empty. He knew it was barricaded 
from the north at the Michigan Avenue exit. It had to have been blocked from the 
far south end too. Gasping, he hurdled the guardrail, jogged to the middle, heard the 
clicking of meaningless traffic lights, and raced across to the other side. He jogged 
south, knowing Chloe was alive but not knowing what he might find. The biggest 
question now, assuming Chloe didn't have some life-threatening injury, was 
whether those print-outs of Bruce's personal commentaries¡Xor worse the computer 
itself¡Xmight have fallen into the wrong hands. Surely, parts of that narrative were 
quite clear about Bruce's belief that Nicolae Carpathia was the antichrist. 
Buck didn't know how he was able to put one foot in front of the other, but on he 
ran, pushing redial and holding the phone to his ear as he went. When he could go 
no further, he slumped into the sand and leaned back against the outside of the 
guardrail, gasping. Finally Chloe answered her phone. 
Having not planned what to say, Buck found himself majoring on the majors. ¡§Are 
you all right? Are you hurt? Where are you?¡¨ He hadn't told her he loved her or that 
he was scared to death about her or that he was glad she was alive. He would 
assume she knew that until he could tell her later. 
She sounded weak. ¡§Buck,¡¨ she said, ¡§Where are you?¡¨ 
¡§I'm heading south on Lake Shore Drive, south of Chicago Avenue.¡¨ 
¡§Thank God,¡¨ she said. ¡§I'm guessing you've got about another mile to go.¡¨ 
¡§Are you hurt?¡¨ 
¡§I'm afraid I am, Buck,¡¨ she said. ¡§I don't know how long I was unconscious. I'm 
not even sure how I got where I am.¡¨ 
¡§Which is where, exactly?¡¨ 
Buck had risen and was walking quickly, there was no running left in him, despite 
his fear that she might be bleeding or in shock. 
¡§I'm in the strangest place,¡¨ she said, and he sensed her fading. He knew she had to 
still be in the vehicle because that phone was not removable. ¡§The airbag 
deployed,¡¨ she added. 
¡§Is the Rover still driveable?¡¨ 
¡§I have no idea, Buck.¡¨ 
¡§Chloe, you're gonna have to tell me what I'm looking for. Are you out in the open? 
Did you elude that cop?¡¨ 

¡§Buck, the Range Rover seems to be stuck between a tree and a concrete abutment.¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ 
¡§I was doing about sixty,¡¨ she said, ¡§when I thought I saw an exit ramp. I took it, 
and that's when I heard the bomb go off.¡¨ 
¡§The bomb?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, Buck, surely you know a bomb exploded in Chicago.¡¨ 
One bomb? Buck thought. Maybe it was merciful she was out for all the bombs that 
followed. 
¡§Anyway, I saw the squad car pass me. Maybe he wasn't after me after all. All the 
traffic on Lake Shore Drive stopped when they saw and heard the bomb, and the 
cop slammed into someone. I hope he's all right. I hope he doesn't die. I'll feel 
responsible.¡¨ 
¡§So, where did you wind up then, Chloe?¡¨ 
¡§Well, I guess what I thought was an exit wasn't really an exit. I never hit the brake, 
but I did take my foot off the gas. The Range Rover was in the air for a few 
seconds. I felt like I was floating for a hundred feet or so. 
¡§There's some sort of a dropoff next to me, and I landed on the tops of some trees 
and turned sideways. The next thing I knew, I woke up and I was alone here.¡¨ 
¡§Where?¡¨ Buck was exasperated, but he certainly couldn't blame Chloe for not 
being more specific. 
¡§Nobody saw me, Buck,¡¨ she said dreamily. ¡§Something must have turned my 
lights off. I'm stuck in the front seat, kind of hanging here by the seat belt. I can 
reach the rearview mirror, and all I saw was traffic all racing away and then no 
more traffic. No more emergency lights, no nothing.¡¨ 
¡§There's nobody around you?¡¨ 
¡§Nobody. I had to turn the car off and then back on to get the phone to turn on. I 
was just praying you'd come looking for me, Buck.¡¨ 
She sounded as if she were about to fall asleep. ¡§Just stay on the line with me, 
Chloe. Don't talk, just keep the line open so I can be sure I don't miss you.¡¨ 
The only lights Buck saw were emergency flashers far in the distance toward the 
inner city, fires still blazing here and there, and a few tiny lights from the boats on 
the lake. Lake Shore Drive was dark as midnight. All the streetlights were out north 
of where he had seen the traffic light flashing. He came around a long bend and 
squinted into the distance. From the faint light of the moon he thought he saw a torn 
up stretch of guardrail, some trees, and a concrete abutment, one of those that 
formed an underpass to get to the beach. He moved slowly forward and then 
stopped to stare. He guessed he was two hundred yards from the spot. ¡§Chloe?¡¨ he 
said into the phone. 

No response. 
¡§Chloe? Are you there?¡¨ 
He heard a sigh. ¡§I'm here, Buck. But I don't feel so good.¡¨ 
¡§Can you reach your lights?¡¨ 
¡§I can try.¡¨ 
¡§Do. Just don't hurt yourself.¡¨ 
¡§I'll try to pull myself up that way by the steering wheel.¡¨ 
Buck heard her groan painfully. Suddenly in the distance, he saw the crazy, vertical 
angle of headlights shining out onto the sand. ¡§I see you, Chloe. Hang on.¡¨ 
Rayford assumed that McCullum assumed that Rayford was sleeping. He was 
slouched in his pilot's chair, chin to his chest, breathing evenly. But his headphones 
were on, and his left hand had depressed the intercom receiver. Carpathia was 
talking in low tones, thinking he was keeping his secrets from the flight crew. 
¡§I was so excited and so full of ideas,¡¨ the potentate said, ¡§that I could not stay 
seated. I hope I do not have a bruise to show for it.¡¨ His lackeys all roared with 
laughter. 
Nothing funnier than the boss's joke, Rayford thought. 
¡§We have so much to talk about, so much to do,¡¨ 
Carpathia continued. ¡§When our compatriots join us in Baghdad, we will get right 
to work.¡¨ 
The destruction of the San Francisco airport and much of the Bay Area had already 
made the news. Rayford saw the fear in McCullum's eyes. Maybe the man would 
have felt more confident had he known that his ultimate boss, Nicolae Carpathia, 
had most everything under control for the next few years. 
Suddenly Rayford heard the unmistakable voice of Leon Fortunato. ¡§Potentate,¡¨ he 
whispered, ¡§we'll need replacements for Hernandez, Halliday, and your fiancee, will 
we not?¡¨ 
Rayford sat up. Was it possible? Had they already eliminated those three, and why 
Hattie Durham? He felt responsible that his former senior flight attendant was now 
not only in Carpathia's employ, but was also his lover and the soon-to-be mother of 
his child. So, was he not going to marry her? Did he not want a child? He had put 
on such a good front before Rayford and Amanda when Hattie had announced the 
news. 
Carpathia chuckled. ¡§Please do not put Ms. Durham in the same category as our late 
friends. Hernandez was expendable. Halliday was a temporary necessity. Let us 
replace Hernandez and not worry about replacing Halliday. He served a purpose. 
The only reason I asked you to replace Hattie is that the job has passed her by. I 

knew that her clerical skills were suspect when I brought her on. I needed an 
assistant, and of course I wanted her. But I will use the excuse of her pregnancy to 
get her out of the office.¡¨ 
¡§Did you want me to handle that for you?¡¨ Fortunato said. 
¡§I will tell her myself, if that is what you mean,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§I would like you 
to handle finding new secretarial personnel.¡¨ 
Rayford fought for composure. He did not want to give anything away to 
McCullum. No one could ever know Rayford could hear those conversations. But 
now he was hearing things he never wanted to hear. Maybe there was some 
advantage to knowing this stuff, and perhaps it might be useful to the Tribulation 
Force. But life had become so cheap that in a matter of hours he had lost a new 
acquaintance, Hernandez, and a dear old mentor and friend, Earl Halliday. He had 
promised Earl he would communicate with Earl's wife should anything happen. He 
did not look forward to that. 
Rayford shut off the intercom. He flipped the switch that allowed him to speak to 
his first officer through the headphones. ¡§I think I will take a break in my quarters,¡¨ 
he said. McCullum nodded, and Rayford made his way out of the cockpit and into 
his chamber, which was even more lavishly appointed than his area on the nowdestroyed 
Global Community One. Rayford removed his shoes and stretched out on 
his back. He thought about Earl. He thought about Amanda. He thought about 
Chloe and Buck. And he worried. And it all started with the loss of Bruce. Rayford 
turned on his side and buried his face in his hands and wept. How many close to 
him might he lose today alone? 
The Range Rover was lodged between the trunk and lower branches of a large tree 
and the concrete abutment. ¡§Turn those lights off, hon!¡¨ Buck called out. ¡§Let's not 
draw attention to ourselves now.¡¨ 
The wheels of the vehicle pressed almost flat against the wall, and Buck was 
amazed that the tree could sustain the weight. Buck had to climb into the tree to 
look down through the driver's-side window. ¡§Can you reach the ignition?¡¨ he 
asked. 
¡§Yes, I had to turn the car off because the wheels were spinning against the wall.¡¨ 
¡§Just turn the key halfway and lower the window so I can help you.¡¨ 
Chloe seemed to be dangling from the seat belt. ¡§I'm not sure I can reach the 
window button on that side.¡¨ 
¡§Can you unlatch your seat belt without hurting yourself?¡¨ 
¡§I'll try, Buck, but I hurt all over. I'm not sure what's broken and what isn't.¡¨ 
¡§Try to brace yourself somehow and get loose of that thing. Then you can stand on 
the passenger's-side window and lower this one.¡¨ But Chloe was so hopelessly 

entangled in the strap that it was all she could do to swing her body around and turn 
the ignition switch halfway. She pulled herself up with her right hand to reach the 
window button. When the window was open, Buck reached down with both hands 
to try to support her. ¡§I was so worried about you,¡¨ he said. 
¡§I was worried about me too,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§I think I took all the damage to my left 
side. I think my ankle's broken, my wrist is sprained, and I feel pain in my left knee 
and shoulder.¡¨ 
¡§Makes sense, from the looks of things,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Does it hurt if I hold you this 
way so you can put your good foot down on the passenger's-side window?¡¨ 
Buck lay across the side of the nearly upended Range Rover and reached way down 
in to put one forearm under Chloe's right arm and grab her waistband at the back 
with the other. He lifted as she pushed the seat belt button. She was petite, but with 
no foundation or way to brace himself it was all Buck could do to keep from 
dropping her. She moved her feet out from under the dashboard and stood gingerly. 
Her feet were on the passenger's-side door, and her head now was near the steering 
wheel. 
¡§You're not bleeding anywhere?¡¨ 
¡§I don't think so.¡¨ 
¡§I hope you're not bleeding internally.¡¨ 
¡§Buck, I'm sure I'd be long gone by now if I were bleeding internally.¡¨ 
¡§So you're basically all right if I can get you out of there?¡¨ 
¡§I really want out of here in a bad way, Buck. Can we get that door open, and can 
you help me climb?¡¨ 
¡§I just have one question for you first. Is this how our married life is going to be? 
I'm going to buy you expensive cars, and you're going to ruin them the first day?¡¨ 
¡§Normally that would be funny¡X¡¨ 
¡§Sorry.¡¨ 
Buck directed Chloe to use her good foot as a base and her good arm to push as he 
pulled open the door. The bottom of the door scraped on the abutment, and Buck 
was struck with how relatively little other damage there was to the vehicle, from 
what he could see in the dim light. ¡§There should be a flashlight in the glove box,¡¨ 
he said. Chloe handed it up to him. He looked all around the vehicle. The tires were 
still good. There was some damage to the front grille, but nothing substantial. He 
turned off the flashlight and slid it into his pocket. With much groaning and 
whimpering, Chloe came climbing out of the car, with Buck's help. 
As they both sat on the upturned driver's side, Buck felt the heavy machine moving 
in its precarious position. 
¡§We have to get you down from here,¡¨ he said. 

¡§Let me see that flashlight for a second,¡¨ Chloe said. She shined it above her. ¡§It 
would be easier to go two feet up to the top of the abutment,¡¨ she said. 
¡§You're right,¡¨ he said. ¡§Can you make it?¡¨ 
¡§I think I can,¡¨ she said. ¡§I'm the little engine who could.¡¨ 
¡§Tell me about it.¡¨ 
Chloe hopped to where she could reach the top of the wall with her good hand, and 
she asked Buck to push until she had most of her weight atop the wall. When she 
made the last thrust with her good leg, the Range Rover shifted just enough to 
loosen itself from the wickedly bent tree branches. The tree and the Range Rover 
shuddered and began to move. ¡§Buck! Get out of there! You're going to be 
crushed!¡¨ 
Buck was spread-eagled on the side of the Range Rover that had been facing up. 
Now it was shifting toward the abutment, the tires scraping and leaving huge marks 
on the concrete. The more Buck tried to move, the faster the vehicle shifted, and he 
realized he had to stay clear of that wall to survive. He grabbed the luggage rack as 
it moved toward him and pulled himself to the actual top of the Range Rover. 
Branches snapped free from under the vehicle and smacked him in the head, 
scraping across his ear. The more the car moved, the more it seemed to want to 
move, and to Buck that was good news¡Xprovided he could keep from falling. First 
the car moved, then the tree moved, then both seemed to readjust themselves at 
once. Buck guessed that the Range Rover, once free of the pressure from the 
branches, had about three feet to drop to the ground. He only hoped it would land 
flat. It didn't. 
The heavy vehicle, left tires pressed against the concrete and several deeply bowed 
branches pushing it from the right side, began slipping to the right. Buck buried his 
head in his hands to avoid the springing out of those branches as the Range Rover 
fell clear of them. They nearly knocked him into the wall again. Once the Range 
Rover was free of the pressure of the branches, it lurched down onto its right side 
tires and nearly toppled. Had it rolled that way, it would have crushed him into the 
tree. But as soon as those tires hit the ground, the whole thing bounced and lurched, 
and the left tires landed just free of the concrete. The momentum made the left side 
of the vehicle smash into the concrete, and finally it came to rest. 
Less than an inch separated the vehicle from the wall now, but there the thing sat on 
uneven ground. Damaged branches hung above it. Buck used the flashlight to 
illuminate the violated car. Except for the damage to the font grille and the scrapes 
on both sides, one from concrete and one from tree branches, the car looked little 
the worse for wear. 
Buck had no idea how to reset an airbag, so he decided to cut it off and worry about 
that later if he could get the Range Rover to run. His side ached, and he was certain 
he had cracked a rib when the Rover had finally hit. bottom. He gingerly climbed 
down and stood under the tree, the branches now blocking his view of Chloe. 

¡§Buck? Are you all right?¡¨ 
¡§Stay right where you are, Chloe. I'm gonna try something.¡¨ 
Buck climbed in the passenger side, strapped himself behind the wheel, and started 
the engine. It sounded perfect. He carefully watched the gauges to make sure 
nothing was empty, dry, or overheated. The Rover was in automatic and four-wheel 
drive. When he tried to go forward it seemed he was in a rut. He quickly switched to 
stick shift and all-wheel drive, gunned the engine, and popped the clutch. Within 
seconds he was free of the tree and out onto the sand. He took a sharp right and 
moved back up next to the guardrail that separated the sand from Lake Shore Drive. 
He drove about a quarter of a mile until he found a spot he could slip through the 
guardrail and turn around. He headed back up toward the overpass where Chloe 
stood, favoring one foot and holding her left wrist in her other hand. To Buck she 
had never looked better. 
He pulled up next to her and ran around to help her into the car. He fastened her seat 
belt and was on the phone before he got back into the car. ¡§Loretta? Chloe is safe. 
She's banged up a little, and I'd like to get her checked out as soon as possible. If 
you could call around and find any doctor in the church who has not been pressed 
into service, I'd sure appreciate it.¡¨ 
Buck tried to drive carefully so as not to exacerbate Chloe's pain. However, he 
knew the shortest way home. When he got to the huge barrier at Michigan Avenue 
on the LSD, he swung left and went up over the embankment he had previously 
walked. He saw Verna's now deceased automobile and ignored the waves and 
warnings of the cops he had talked to not so long ago. He sped up Lake Shore 
Drive, went around the barriers at Sheridan, followed Chloe's directions to 
Dempster, and was soon back into the northwest suburbs. 
Loretta and Verna were watching from the window as he pulled into the drive. Only 
then did he smack himself in the head and remember. He jumped out of the car and 
raced around to the back. Fumbling with the keys, he opened the back latch and 
found, strewn all over, Bruce's pages. The computer was there too, along with the 
phones Chloe had bought. ¡§Chloe,¡¨ he said, and she turned gingerly. ¡§As soon as 
we get you inside, I'd better get back to Carpathia.¡¨ 
Rayford was back in the cockpit. As the night wore on, the cabin grew more and 
more quiet. The conversation deteriorated into small talk. The dignitaries were well 
fed by the crew, and Rayford got the impression they were settling in for the long 
haul. 
Rayford awakened with a start and realized his finger had slipped off the intercom 
button. He pressed it again and still heard nothing. He had heard more than he 
wanted to hear already anyway. He decided to stretch his legs. 
As he walked back through the main cabin to watch one of the televisions in the 

back of the plane, everyone except Carpathia ignored him. Some dozed and some 
were being attended to by the flight crew, who were clearing trays and finding 
blankets and pillows. Carpathia nodded and smiled and waved to Rayford. How can 
he do that? Rayford wondered. Bruce said the Antichrist would not be indwelt by 
Satan himself until halfway into the Tribulation, but surely this man is the 
embodiment of evil. 
Rayford could not let on that he knew the truth, despite the fact that Carpathia was 
well aware of his Christian beliefs. Rayford merely nodded and walked on. On 
television he saw live reports from around the world. Scripture had come to life. 
This was the Red Horse of the Apocalypse. Next would come more death by famine 
and plagues until a quarter of the population of the earth that remained after the 
Rapture was wiped out. His universal cell phone vibrated in his pocket. Few people 
not on that plane knew his number. Thank God for technology, he thought. He 
didn't want anyone to hear him. He slipped deeper into the back of the plane and 
stood near a window. The night was as black as Carpathia's soul. 
¡§This is Rayford Steele,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Daddy?¡¨ 
¡§Chloe! Thank God! Chloe, are you all right?¡¨ 
¡§I had a little car accident, Dad. I just wanted you to know that you saved my life 
again.¡¨ 
¡§What do you mean?¡¨ 
¡§I got that message you left at The Drake,¡¨ she said. ¡§If I had taken the time to go to 
our room, I probably wouldn't be here.¡¨ 
¡§And Buck's OK?¡¨ 
¡§He's fine. He's late returning a call to you-know-who, so he's trying to do that right 
now.¡¨ 
¡§Let me excuse myself, then,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§I'll get back to you.¡¨ 
Rayford strode back to the cockpit, trying not to appear in a hurry. As he passed 
Fortunato, Leon was handing a phone to Carpathia. ¡§Williams from Chicago,¡¨ he 
said. ¡§It's about time.¡¨ 
Carpathia made a face as if he felt Leon was overreacting. As Rayford reached the 
cockpit, he heard Carpathia exalt, ¡§Cameron, my friend! I have been worried about 
you.¡¨ 
Rayford quickly settled in and set his earphones. McCullum looked at him 
expectantly, but Rayford ignored him and closed his eyes, pressing the secret 
button. 
¡§I am curious about coverage,¡¨ Carpathia was saying. ¡§What is happening there in 
Chicago? Yes¡Xyes¡Xdevastation, I understand¡Xyes. Yes, a tragedy¡X¡¨ 

Sickening, Rayford thought. 
¡§Cameron,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§would it be possible for you to get to New Babylon 
within the next few days? Ah, I see¡XIsrael? Yes, I see the wisdom of that. The socalled 
holy lands were spared again, were they not? I would like pooled coverage of 
high-level meetings in Baghdad and New Babylon. I would like to have your pen on 
it, but Steve Plank, your old friend, can run the point. You and he can work together 
to see that the appropriate coverage is carried in all our print media....¡¨ 
Rayford would be eager to talk to Buck. He admired his son-in-law's moxie and 
ability to set his own agenda and even gracefully decline suggested directives from 
Carpathia. Rayford wondered how long Carpathia would stand for that. For now, he 
apparently respected Buck enough and was, Rayford hoped, still unaware of Buck's 
true loyalties. 
¡§Well,¡¨ Carpathia was saying, ¡§of course I am grieving. You will keep in touch 
then, and I will hear from you from Israel.¡¨ 
CHAPTER SIX 
BUCK sat bleary-eyed at the breakfast table, his ear stinging and his rib cage tender. 
Only he and Loretta were up. She was heading to the church office after having 
been assured she would not have to handle the arrangements for Bruce's body or for 
the memorial service, which would be part of Sunday morning's agenda. Verna Zee 
was asleep in a small bedroom in the finished basement. ¡§It feels so good to have 
people in this place again,¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§Y'all can stay as long as you need to or 
want to.¡¨ 
¡§We're grateful,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Amanda may sleep till noon, but then she'll get right 
on those arrangements with the coroner's office. Chloe didn't sleep much with that 
ankle cast. She's dead to the world now, though, so I expect her to sleep a long 
time.¡¨ 
Buck had used the dining-room table to put back in order all the pages from Bruce's 
transcripts that had been strewn throughout the back of the Range Rover. He had a 
huge job ahead of him, checking the text and determining what would be best for 
reproduction and distribution. He set the stacks to one side and laid out the five 
deluxe universal cell phones Chloe had bought. Fortunately, they had been packed 
in spongy foam and had survived her accident. 
He had told her not to scrimp, and she certainly hadn't. He didn't even want to guess 
the total price, but these phones had everything, including the ability to take calls 
anywhere in the world, due to a built-in satellite chip. 
After Loretta left for the church, Buck rummaged for batteries, then quickly taught 
himself the basics from the instruction manual and tried his first phone call. For 

once, he was glad he had always been manic about hanging onto old phone 
numbers. Deep in his wallet was just the one he needed. Ken Ritz, a former 
commercial pilot and now owner of his own jet charter service, had bailed out Buck 
before. He was the one who had flown Buck from a tiny airstrip in Waukegan, 
Illinois, to New York the day after the vanishings. ¡§I know you're busy, Mr. Ritz, 
and probably don't need my business,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§but you also know I'm on a big, 
fat expense account and can pay more than anyone else.¡¨ 
¡§I'm down to one jet,¡¨ Ritz said. ¡§It's at Palwaukee, and right now both it and I are 
available. I'm charging two bucks a mile and a thousand dollars a day for down 
time. Where do you want to go?¡¨ 
¡§Israel,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§And I have to be back here by Saturday night at the latest.¡¨ 
¡§Jet lag city,¡¨ Ritz said. ¡§It's best to fly that way early evening and land there the 
next day. Meet me at Palwaukee at seven, and we've got a deal.¡¨ 
Rayford had finally fallen off to sleep for real, snoring, according to McCullum, for 
several hours. 
About an hour outside Baghdad, Leon Fortunato entered the cockpit and knelt next 
to Rayford. ¡§We're not entirely sure of security in New Babylon,¡¨ he said. ¡§No one 
expects us to land in Baghdad. Let's keep maintaining with the New Babylon tower 
that we're on our way directly there. When we pick up our other three ambassadors, 
we may just stay on the ground for a few hours until our security forces have had a 
chance to clear New Babylon.¡¨ 
¡§Will that affect your meetings?¡¨ Rayford said, trying to sound casual. 
¡§I don't see how it concerns you one way or the other. We can easily meet on the 
plane while it is being refueled. You can keep the air-conditioning on, right?¡¨ 
¡§Sure,¡¨ Rayford said, trying to think quickly, ¡§there is still a lot I'd like to teach 
myself about this craft. I'll stay in the cockpit or in my quarters and keep out of your 
way.¡¨ 
¡§See that you do.¡¨ 
Buck checked in with Donny Moore, who said he had found some incredible deals 
on individual components and was putting together the five mega-laptops himself. 
¡§That'll save you a little money,¡¨ he said. ¡§Just a little over twenty thousand apiece, 
I figure.¡¨ 
¡§And I can have these when I get back from a trip, on Sunday?¡¨ 
¡§Guaranteed, sir.¡¨ 
Buck told key people at Global Community Weekly his new universal cell phone 
number and asked that they keep it confidential except from Carpathia, Plank, and 

Rosenzweig. Buck carefully packed his one big, leather shoulder bag and spent the 
rest of the day working on Bruce's transcripts and trying to reach Rosenzweig. The 
old man had seemed to be trying to tell him, not in so many words, that he knew Dr. 
Ben-Judah was alive and safe somewhere. He just hoped Rosenzweig had followed 
his advice and was keeping Carpathia out of the picture. Buck had no idea where 
Tsion Ben-Judah might be hiding out. But if Rosenzweig knew, Buck wanted to talk 
with him before he and Ken Ritz hit the ground at Ben Gurion Airport. 
How long, he wondered, before he and his loved ones would be hiding out in the 
shelter under the church? 
Security was tight at Baghdad. Rayford had been instructed not to communicate 
with the tower there so as not to allow enemy aircraft to know where they were. 
Rayford was convinced that the retaliatory strikes by Global Community forces in 
London and Cairo, not to mention North America, would have kept all but the 
suicidal out of Iraq. However, he did what he was told. 
Leon Fortunato communicated by phone with both Baghdad and New Babylon 
towers. Rayford phoned ahead to be sure there was a place he and McCullum could 
stretch their legs and relax inside the terminal. Despite his years of flying, there 
came certain points even for him when he became claustrophobic aboard a plane. 
A ring of heavily armed GC soldiers surrounded the plane as it slowly rolled to a 
stop at the most secure end of the Baghdad terminal. The six-member crew of 
stewards and flight attendants were the first to get off. Fortunato waited until 
Rayford and McCullum had run through their postflight checklist. He got off with 
them. ¡§Captain Steele,¡¨ he said, ¡§I will be bringing the three other ambassadors 
back on board within the hour.¡¨ 
¡§And when would you like to leave for New Babylon?¡¨ 
¡§Probably not for another four hours or so.¡¨ 
¡§International aviation rules prohibit me from flying again for twenty-four hours.¡¨ 
¡§Nonsense,¡¨ Fortunato said. ¡§How do you feel?¡¨ 
¡§Exhausted.¡¨ 
¡§Nevertheless, you're the only one qualified to fly this plane, and you'll be flying it 
when we say you'll be flying it.¡¨ 
¡§So international aviation rules go out the window?¡¨ 
¡§Steele, you know that international rules on everything are embodied in the man 
sitting on that plane. When he wants to go to New Babylon, you'll fly him to New 
Babylon. Understood?¡¨ 
¡§And if I refuse?¡¨ 
¡§Don't be silly.¡¨ 

¡§Let me remind you, Leon, that once I've gotten a break, I'll want to be on that 
plane, familiarizing myself with all its details.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, yeah, I know. Just stay out of our way. And I would appreciate it if you 
would refer to me as Mr. Fortunato.¡¨ 
¡§That means a lot to you, does it, Leon?¡¨ 
¡§Don't push me, Steele.¡¨ 
As they entered the terminal, Rayford said, ¡§As I am the only one who can fly that 
plane, I would appreciate it if you would call me Captain Steele.¡¨ 
Late in the afternoon, Chicago time, Buck broke from the fascinating reading of 
Bruce Barnes's writing and finally got through to Chaim Rosenzweig. 
¡§Cameron! I have finally talked live with our mutual friend. Let us not mention his 
name on the phone. He did not speak to me long, but he sounded so empty and 
hollow that it moved me to my very soul. It was a strange message, Cameron. He 
simply said that you would know whom to talk with about his whereabouts.¡¨ 
¡§That I would know?¡¨ 
¡§That's what he said, Cameron. That you would know. Do you suppose he means 
NC?¡¨ 
¡§No! No! Chaim, I'm still praying you're keeping him out of this.¡¨ 
¡§I am, Cameron, but it is not easy! Who else can intercede for the life of my friend? 
I am frantic that the worst will happen, and I will feel responsible.¡¨ 
¡§I'm coming there. Can you arrange a car for me?¡¨ 
¡§Our mutual friend's car and driver are available, but dare I trust him?¡¨ 
¡§Do you think he had anything to do with the trouble?¡¨ 
¡§I should think he had more to do with getting our friend to safety.¡¨ 
¡§Then he is probably in danger,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Oh, I hope not,¡¨ Rosenzweig said. ¡§Anyway, I will meet you at the airport myself. 
Somehow we will get you where you need to go. Can I arrange a room for you 
somewhere?¡¨ 
¡§You know where I've always stayed,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§but I think I'd better stay 
somewhere else this time.¡¨ 
¡§Very well, Cameron. There's a nice hotel within driving distance of your usual, and 
I am known there.¡¨ 
Rayford stretched and stood watching the Cable News Network/Global Community 
Network television broadcast originating in Atlanta and beamed throughout the 
world. It was clear Carpathia had completely effected his will and spin onto the 
news directors at every venue. While the stories carried the horrifying pictures of 

war, bloodshed, injury, and death, each also spoke glowingly of the swift and 
decisive action of the potentate in responding to the crisis and crushing the 
rebellion. Water supplies had been contaminated, power was out in many areas, 
millions were instantly homeless. 
Rayford noticed activity outside the terminal. A dolly carrying television 
equipment, including a camera, were wheeled toward the Condor 216. Soon 
enough, CNN/GCN announced the impending live television broadcast from 
Potentate Carpathia at an unknown location. Rayford shook his head and went to a 
desk in the corner, where he found stationery from a Middle Eastern airline and 
began composing a letter to Earl Halliday's wife. 
Logic told Rayford he should not feel responsible. Apparently Halliday had been 
cooperating with Carpathia and his people on the Condor 216 long before Rayford 
was even aware of it. However, there would be no way Mrs. Halliday would know 
or understand anything except that it appeared Rayford had led his old friend and 
boss directly to his death. Rayford didn't even know yet how Earl had been killed. 
Perhaps everyone on his flight to Glenview had perished. All he knew was that the 
deed had been done, and Earl Halliday was no more. As he sat trying to compose a 
letter with words that could never be right, he felt a huge, dark cloud of depression 
begin to settle on him. He missed his wife. He missed his daughter. He grieved over 
his pastor. He mourned the loss of friends and acquaintances, new and old. How had 
it come to this? 
Rayford knew he was not responsible for what Nicolae Carpathia meted out against 
his enemies. The terrible, dark judgment on the earth rendered by this evil man 
would not stop if Rayford merely quit his job. Hundreds of pilots could fly this 
plane. He himself had learned in half an hour. He didn't need the job, didn't want the 
job, didn't ask for the job. Somehow, he knew God had placed him there. For what? 
Was this surprising bugging of the intercom system by Earl Halliday a gift directly 
from God that allowed Rayford to somehow protect a few from the wrath of 
Carpathia? 
Already he believed it had saved his daughter and son-in-law from certain death in 
the Chicago bombings, and now, as he looked at television reports from America's 
West Coast, he wished there had been something he could have done to have 
warned people in San Francisco and Los Angeles of their impending doom. He was 
fighting an uphill battle, and in himself he didn't have the strength to carry on. 
He finished the brief note of condolence and regret to Mrs. Halliday, lowered his 
head to his arms on the desk, felt a lump in his throat, but was unable to produce 
tears. He knew he could cry twenty-four hours a day from now until the end of the 
Tribulation, when his pastor had promised that Christ would return yet again in 
what Bruce had called ¡§the Glorious Appearing.¡¨ How he longed for that day! 
Would he or his loved ones survive to see it, or would they be ¡§tribulation martyrs,¡¨ 
as Bruce had been? At times like this Rayford wished for some quick, painless 
death that would take him directly to heaven to be with Christ. It was selfish, he 

knew. He wouldn't really want to leave those he loved and who loved him, but the 
prospect of five more years of this was nearly unbearable. 
And now came a brief address from Global Community Potentate Nicolae 
Carpathia. Rayford knew he was sitting within two hundred feet of the man, and yet 
he watched it on television, as did millions of others across the globe. 
It was nearly time for Buck to head for Palwaukee Airport. Verna Zee was back at 
the Global Community Weekly office with the new (to her) used car Buck had 
promised to buy her from the fleet of leftovers from New Hope. Loretta was at the 
church office fielding the constant phone calls about Sunday's memorial service. 
Chloe hobbled around on a cane, needing crutches but unable to manage them with 
her sprained wrist in a sling. That left Amanda to take Buck to the airport. 
¡§I want to ride along,¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§Are you sure you're up to it, hon?¡¨ Buck said. 
Chloe's voice was quavery. ¡§Buck, I hate to say it, but in this day and age we never 
know when we might or might not ever see each other again.¡¨ 
¡§You're being a little maudlin, aren't you?¡¨ he said. 
¡§Buck!¡¨ Amanda said in a scolding tone. ¡§You cater to her feelings now. I had to 
kiss my husband good-bye in front of the Antichrist. You think that gives me 
confidence about whether I'll ever see him again?¡¨ 
Buck was properly chastised. ¡§Let's go,¡¨ he said. He jogged out to the Range Rover 
and swung his bag into the back, returning quickly to help Chloe to the car. Amanda 
sat in the backseat and would drive Chloe home later. 
Buck was amazed that the built-in TV had survived Chloe's crash. He was not in a 
position to see it, but he listened as Amanda and Chloe watched. Nicolae Carpathia, 
in his usual overly humble manner, was holding forth: 
¡§Make no mistake, my brothers and sisters, there will be many dark days ahead. It 
will take tremendous resources to begin the rebuilding process, but because of the 
generosity of the seven loyal global regions and with the support of those citizens in 
the other three areas who were loyal to the Global Community and not to the 
insurrectionists, we are amassing the largest relief fund in the history of mankind. 
This will be administered to needy nations from New Babylon and the Global 
Community headquarters under my personal supervision. With the chaos that has 
resulted from this most sinister and unwise rebellion, local efforts to rebuild and 
care for the displaced will likely be thwarted by opportunists and looters. The relief 
effort carried out under the auspices of the Global Community will be handled in a 
swift and generous way that will allow as many loyal members of the Global 
Community as possible to return to their prosperous standard of living. 
¡§Continue to resist naysayers and insurrectionists. Continue to support the Global 

Community. And remember that though I did not seek this position, I accept it with 
gravity and with resolve to pour out my life in service to the brotherhood and 
sisterhood of mankind. I appreciate your support as we set about to sacrificially 
stand by each other and pull ourselves out of this morass and to a higher plane than 
any of us could reach without the help of the other.¡¨ 
Buck shook his head. ¡§He sure tells 'em what they wanna hear, doesn't he?¡¨ 
Chloe and Amanda were silent. 
Rayford told First Officer McCullum to hang loose and be ready to depart for New 
Babylon whenever they were asked. He guessed it would be several hours yet. ¡§But, 
at least stay available,¡¨ Rayford told him. 
When Rayford boarded the plane, ostensibly to familiarize himself better with all 
the new whistles and bells, he went first to the pilot's quarters, noticing that 
Carpathia and his aides were merely greeting and small-talking with the seven loyal 
ambassadors to the Global Community. 
When Rayford moved from his quarters into the cockpit, he noticed Fortunato look 
up. He whispered something to Carpathia. Carpathia agreed, and the entire meeting 
was moved back one compartment in the middle of the aircraft. ¡§This will be more 
comfortable anyway,¡¨ Carpathia was saying. ¡§There is a nice conference table in 
here.¡¨ 
Rayford shut the cockpit door and locked it. He pulled out pre- and postflight 
checklists and put them on a clipboard with other blank sheets, just to make it look 
good in case someone knocked. He sat in his chair, applied his headphones, and hit 
the intercom button. 
The Middle Eastern ambassador was speaking. ¡§Dr. Rosenzweig sends his most 
heartfelt and loyal greetings to you, Potentate. There is an urgent personal matter he 
wants me to share with you.¡¨ 
¡§Is it confidential?¡¨ Carpathia said. 
¡§I don't believe so, sir. It concerns Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§The scholar who has been creating such a furor with his controversial message?¡¨ 
¡§One and the same,¡¨ the Middle Eastern ambassador said. ¡§Apparently his wife and 
two stepchildren have been murdered by zealots, and Dr. Ben-Judah himself is in 
hiding somewhere.¡¨ 
¡§He should have expected no better,¡¨ Nicolae said. Rayford shuddered as he always 
did when Carpathia's voice waxed grave. 
¡§I couldn't agree with you more, Potentate,¡¨ the ambassador said. ¡§I can't believe 
those zealots let him slip through their fingers.¡¨ 
¡§So, what does Rosenzweig want from me?¡¨ 

¡§He wants you to intercede on Ben-Judah's behalf.¡¨ 
¡§With whom?¡¨ 
¡§I suppose with the zealots,¡¨ the ambassador said, bursting into laughter. 
Rayford recognized Carpathia's laughter as well, and soon the others joined in. 
¡§OK, gentlemen, calm down,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§Perhaps what I should do is accede 
to Dr. Rosenzweig's request and speak directly with the head of the zealot faction. I 
would give him my full blessing and support and perhaps even supply some 
technology that would help him find his prey and eliminate him with dispatch.¡¨ 
The ambassador responded, ¡§Seriously, Potentate, how shall I respond to Dr. 
Rosenzweig?¡¨ 
¡§Stall him for a while. Be hard to reach. Then tell him that you have not found the 
proper moment to raise the issue with me. After an appropriate lapse, tell him I have 
been too busy to pursue it. Finally, you can tell him that I have chosen to remain 
neutral on the subject.¡¨ 
¡§Very good, sir.¡¨ 
But Carpathia was not neutral. He had just begun to warm to the subject. Rayford 
heard the squeak of a leather seat and imagined Carpathia leaning forward to speak 
earnestly to his cadre of international henchmen, ¡§But let me tell you this, 
gentlemen. A person such as Dr. Ben-Judah is much more dangerous to our cause 
than an old fool like Rosenzweig. Rosenzweig is a brilliant scientist, but he is not 
wise in the ways of the world. Ben-Judah is more than a brilliant scholar. He has the 
ability to sway people, which would not be a bad thing if he served our cause. But 
he wants to fill his countrymen's minds with this blather about the Messiah having 
already returned. How anyone can still insist on taking the Bible literally and 
interpreting its prophecies in that light is beyond me, but tens of thousands of 
converts and devotees have sprung up in Israel and around the world due to his 
preaching at Teddy Kollek Stadium and in other huge venues. People will believe 
anything. And when they do, they are dangerous. Ben-judah's time is short, and I 
will not stand in the way of his demise. Now, let us get down to business.¡¨ 
Rayford pulled up the top two sheets on his clipboard and began to take notes, as 
Carpathia outlined immediate plans. 
¡§We must act swiftly,¡¨ he was saying, ¡§while the people are most vulnerable and 
open. They will look to the Global Community for help and aid, and we will give it 
to them. However, they will give it to us first. We had an enormous storehouse of 
income before the rebuilding of Babylon. We will need much more to effect our 
plan of raising the level of Third World countries so that the entire globe is on equal 
footing. I tell you, gentlemen, I was so excited and full of ideas last night that I 
could not sit down for our takeoff out of San Francisco. I was nearly thrown into 
this room from the forward cabin when we started down the runway. Here is what I 
was thinking about: 

¡§You all have been doing a wonderful job of moving to the one-world currency. We 
are close to a cashless society, which can only help the Global Community 
administration. Upon your return to your respective areas, I would like you to 
announce, simultaneously, the initiation of a ten-cent tax on all electronic money 
transfers. When we get to the totally cashless system, you can imagine that every 
transaction will be electronic. I estimate that this will generate more than one and a 
half trillion dollars annually. 
¡§I am also initiating a one-dollar-per-barrel tax on oil at the well, plus a ten-centsper-
gallon tax at the pump on gasoline. My economic advisers tell me this could net 
us more than half a trillion dollars every year. You knew the time would come for a 
tax to the Global Community on each area's Gross National Product. That time has 
come. While the insurrectionists from Egypt, Great Britain, and North America 
have been devastated militarily, they must also be disciplined with a 50 percent tax 
on their GNP. The rest of you will pay 30 percent. 
¡§Now do not give me those looks, gentlemen. You understand that everything you 
pay in will be returned to you in multiplied benefits. We are building a new global 
community. Pain is part of the process. The devastation and death of this war will 
blossom into a Utopia unlike any the world has ever seen. And you will be in the 
forefront of it. Your countries and regions will benefit, and you personally most of 
all. 
¡§Here is what else I have in mind. As you know, our intelligence sources quickly 
became convinced that the attack on New York had been planned by American 
militia under the clandestine leadership of President Fitzhugh. This only confirmed 
my earlier decision to virtually strip him of executive power. We now know that he 
was killed in our retaliatory attack on Washington, D.C., which we have been able 
to effectively lay at the feet of the insurrectionists. Those limited few who remain 
loyal to him will likely turn against the rebels and see that they were bumbling 
fools. 
¡§As you know, the second largest pool of oil, second only to the one in Saudi 
Arabia, was discovered above the Prudhoe Bay in Alaska. During the state of this 
leadership vacuum in North America, the Global Community will appropriate the 
vast oil fields in Alaska, including that huge pool. Years ago it was capped off to 
satisfy environmentalists; however, I have ordered teams of laborers into the region 
to install a series of sixteen-inch pipelines that would route that oil through Canada 
and to waterways where it could be barged to international trade centers. We 
already own the rights to oil in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Iran, and the rest of the 
Middle East. That gives us control of two-thirds of the world's oil supply. 
¡§We will gradually but steadily raise the price of oil, which will further finance our 
plans to inject social services into underprivileged countries and make the world 
playing field equal for everyone. From oil alone, we should be able to profit at a rate 
of about one trillion dollars per year. 

¡§I will soon be appointing leaders to replace the three ambassadors of the regions 
that turned against us. That will bring the Global Community administration back to 
its full complement of ten regions. While you are now known as ambassadors to the 
Global Community, forthwith I will begin referring to you as sovereign heads of 
your own kingdoms. You will each continue to report directly to me. I will approve 
your budgets, receive your taxes, and give you bloc grants. Some will criticize this 
as making it appear that all nations and regions are dependent upon the Global 
Community for their income and thus assuring our control over the destiny of your 
people. You know better. You know that your loyalty will be rewarded, that the 
world will be a better place in which to live, and that our destiny is a Utopian 
society based on peace and brotherhood. 
¡§I am sure you all agree that the world has had enough of an antagonistic press. 
Even I, who have no designs on personal gain and certainly only altruistic motives 
for humbly and unwillingly accepting the heavy mantle of responsibility for world 
leadership, have been attacked and criticized by editorialists. The Global 
Community's ability to purchase all the major media outlets has virtually eliminated 
that. While we may have been criticized for threatening freedom of speech or 
freedom of the press, I believe the world can see that those unchecked freedoms led 
to excesses that stifled the ability and creativity of any leader. While they may once 
have been necessary to keep evil dictators from taking over, when there is nothing 
to criticize, such oppositional editorialists are anachronistic.¡¨ 
Rayford felt a tingle up his spine and nearly turned, convinced someone was 
standing right outside the cockpit door. Finally the feeling became so foreboding 
and pervasive that he whipped off his headphones and stood, leaning to peek 
through the fish-eye peephole. No one was there. Was God trying to tell him 
something? He was reminded of the same sense of fear that had overcome him 
when Buck had told his terrifying story of sitting through a meeting where 
Carpathia had single-handedly hypnotized and brainwashed everyone in the room 
except Buck. 
Rayford sat back in his seat and put the headphones on. When he depressed the 
intercom button, it was as if he were hearing a new Carpathia. Nicolae spoke very 
softly, very earnestly, in a monotone. None of the flourishes and inflections that 
usually characterized his speech were evident. ¡§I want to tell you all something, and 
I want you to listen very carefully and understand fully. This same control that we 
now have over all media, we also need over industry and commerce. It is not 
necessary for us to buy or own all of it. That would be too obvious and too easily 
opposed. Ownership is not the issue. Control is. Within the next few months we 
shall all announce unanimous decisions allowing us to control business, education, 
health care, and even the way your individual kingdoms choose their leaders. The 
fact is, democracy and voting will be suspended. They are inefficient and not in the 
best interests of the people. Because of what we will provide people, they will 
quickly understand that this is correct. Each of you can go back to your subjects and 

honestly tell them that this was your idea, you raised it, you sought support of your 
colleagues and me for it, and you prevailed. I will publicly reluctantly accede to 
your wishes, and we will all win.¡¨ 
Rayford listened to a long silence, wondering if his bugging device was 
malfunctioning. He released and depressed it several times, finally deciding that no 
one was saying anything in the conference area. So this was the mind control Buck 
had witnessed firsthand. Finally, Leon Fortunato spoke up. ¡§Potentate Carpathia,¡¨ 
he began deferentially, ¡§I know I am merely your aide and not a member of this 
august body. However, may I make a suggestion?¡¨ 
¡§Why, yes, Leon,¡¨ Carpathia said, seeming pleasantly surprised. ¡§You are in a 
significant position of trust and confidence, and we all value your input.¡¨ 
¡§I was just thinking, sir,¡¨ Fortunato said, ¡§that you and your colleagues here might 
consider suspending popular voting as inefficient and not in the best interests of the 
people, at least temporarily.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Mr. Fortunato,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§I do not know. How do you feel people 
would respond to such a controversial proposal?¡¨ 
The others seemed unable to keep from talking over each other. Rayford heard them 
all agreeing with Fortunato and urging Carpathia to consider this. One repeated 
Carpathia's statement about how much healthier the press was now that the Global 
Community owned it and added that ownership of industry and commerce was not 
as necessary as ownership of the press, as long as it was Carpathia controlled and 
Global Community led. 
¡§Thank you very much for your input, gentlemen. It has been most stimulating and 
inspiring. I will take all these matters to heart and let you know soon of their 
disposition and implementation.¡¨ 
The meeting lasted another couple of hours and consisted mostly of Carpathia's socalled 
kings parroting back to him everything he had assured them that they would 
find brilliant when they thought about it. Each seemed to raise these as new and 
fresh ideas. Not only had Carpathia just mentioned them, but often the ambassadors 
would repeat each other as if not having heard. 
¡§Now, gentlemen,¡¨ Carpathia concluded, ¡§in a few hours we will be in New 
Babylon, and I will soon appoint the three new ambassador rulers. I want you to be 
aware of the inevitable. We cannot pretend that the world as we know it has not 
been almost destroyed by this outbreak of global war. It is not over yet. There will 
be more skirmishes. There will be more surreptitious attacks. We will have to 
reluctantly access our power base of weaponry, which you all know I am loath to 
do, and many more thousands of lives will be lost in addition to the hundreds of 
thousands already taken. In spite of all of our best efforts and the wonderful ideas 
you have shared with me today, we must face the fact that for a long time we will be 
fighting an uphill battle. 

¡§Opportunists always come to the fore at a time such as this. Those who would 
oppose us will take advantage of the impossibility of our peacekeeping forces to be 
everywhere at once, and this will result in famine, poverty, and disease. In one way, 
there is a positive side to this. Due to the incredible cost of rebuilding, the fewer 
people we must feed and whose standard of living we must raise, the more quickly 
and economically we can do this. As the population level decreases and then 
stabilizes, it will be important for us to be sure that it does not then explode again 
too quickly. With proper legislation regarding abortion, assisted suicide, and the 
reduction of expensive care for the defective and handicapped, we should be able to 
get a handle on worldwide population control.¡¨ 
All Rayford could do was pray. ¡§Lord,¡¨ he said silently, ¡§I wish I was a more 
willing servant. Is there no other role for me? Could I not be used in some sort of 
active opposition or judgment against this evil one? I can only trust in your purpose. 
Keep my loved ones safe until we see you in all your glory. I know you have long 
since forgiven me for my years of disbelief and indifference, but still it weighs 
heavily on me. Thank you for helping me find the truth. Thank you for Bruce 
Barnes. And thank you for being with us as we fight this ultimate battle.¡¨ 
CHAPTER SEVEN 
BUCK had always had the ability to sleep well, even when he couldn't sleep long. 
He could have used a dozen or more hours the night before, after the day he had 
had. However, seven-plus hours had been just enough because when he was out, he 
was out. He knew Chloe had slept fitfully only because she told him in the morning. 
Her tossing and turning and winces of pain had not affected his slumber. 
Now, as Ken Ritz landed the Learjet in Easton, Pennsylvania, ¡§just to top off the 
tank before headin' to Tel Aviv,¡¨ Buck was alert. He and the lanky, weathered, 
veteran pilot in his late fifties seemed to have picked up where they left off the last 
time he had employed this freelance charter service. Ritz was a talker, a raconteur, 
opinionated, interesting, and interested. He was as eager to know Buck's latest 
thoughts on the vanishings and the global war as he was in sharing his own views. 
¡§So, what's new with the jet-setting young magazine writer since I saw you last, 
what, almost two years ago?¡¨ Ritz had begun. 
Buck told him. He recalled that Ritz had been forthright and outspoken when they 
first met, admitting that he had no more idea than anyone else what might have 
caused the vanishings but coming down on the side of aliens from outer space. It 
had hit Buck as a wild idea for a buttoned-down pilot, but Buck hadn't come to any 
conclusions at that time either. One theory was as good as the next. Ritz had told 
him of many strange encounters in the air that made it plausible that an airman 
might believe in such things. 

That gave Buck the confidence to tell his own story without apology. It didn't seem 
to faze Ritz, at least negatively. He listened quietly, and when Buck was through, 
Ritz simply nodded. 
¡§So,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§do I seem as weird to you now as you did to me when you were 
propounding the space aliens theory?¡¨ 
¡§Not really,¡¨ Ritz said. ¡§You'd be amazed at the number of people just like you that 
I've run into since the last time we talked. I don't know what it all means, but I'm 
beginning to believe there are more people who agree with you than agree with 
me.¡¨ 
¡§I'll tell you one thing,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§if I'm right, I'm still in big trouble. We are all 
gonna go through some real horror. But people who don't believe are going to be in 
worse trouble than they could ever imagine.¡¨ 
¡§I can't imagine worse trouble than we're in right now.¡¨ 
¡§I know what you mean,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I used to apologize and try to make sure I 
wasn't coming on too strong or being obnoxious, but let me just urge you to 
investigate what I've said. And don't assume you've got a lot of time to do it.¡¨ 
¡§That's all part of the belief system, isn't it?¡¨ Ritz said. ¡§If what you say is true, the 
end isn't that far off. Just a few years.¡¨ 
¡§Exactly.¡¨ 
¡§Then, if a fella was gonna check it out, he better get to it.¡¨ 
¡§I couldn't have said it better myself,¡¨ Buck said. 
After refueling in Easton, Ritz spent the hours over the Atlantic asking ¡§what if¡¨ 
questions. Buck had to keep assuring him he was not a student or a scholar, but he 
amazed even himself at what he remembered from Bruce's teaching. 
¡§It must have hurt like everything to lose a friend like that,¡¨ Ritz said. 
¡§You can't imagine.¡¨ 
Leon Fortunato instructed everyone on the plane when to get off and where to stand 
for the cameras when they finally reached New Babylon. 
¡§Mr. Fortunato,¡¨ Rayford said, careful to follow Leon's wishes, at least in front of 
others, ¡§McCullum and I don't really need to be in the photograph, do we?¡¨ 
¡§Not unless you'd like to go against the wishes of the potentate himself,¡¨ Fortunato 
said. ¡§Please just do what you're told.¡¨ 
The plane was on the ground and secure in New Babylon for several minutes before 
the doors were opened and the Carpathia-controlled press was assembled. Rayford 
sat in the cockpit, still listening over the two-way intercom. ¡§Remember,¡¨ Carpathia 
said, ¡§no smiles. This is a grave, sad day. Appropriate expressions, please.¡¨ 

Rayford wondered why anyone would have to be reminded not to smile on a day 
like this. 
Next came Fortunato's voice: ¡§Potentate, apparently there's a surprise waiting for 
you.¡¨ 
¡§You know I do not like surprises,¡¨ Carpathia said. 
¡§It seems your fiancee is waiting with the crowd.¡¨ 
¡§That is totally inappropriate.¡¨ 
¡§Would you like me to have her removed?¡¨ 
¡§No, I am not sure how she might react. We certainly would not like a scene. I just 
hope she knows how to act. This is not her strength, as you know.¡¨ 
Rayford thought Fortunato was diplomatic to not respond to that. 
There was a rap at the cockpit door. ¡§Pilot and copilot first,¡¨ Fortunato called out. 
¡§Let's go!¡¨ 
Rayford buttoned his dress uniform jacket and put his hat on as he stepped out of 
the cockpit. He and McCullum trotted down the steps and began the right side of a 
V of people who would flank the potentate, the last to disembark. 
Next came the flight service crew, who seemed awkward and nervous. They knew 
enough not to giggle, but simply looked down and walked directly to their spots. 
Fortunato and two other Carpathia aides led the seven ambassadors down the steps. 
Rayford turned to watch Carpathia appear in the opening at the top of the stairs. 
The potentate always seemed taller than he really was in these situations, Rayford 
thought. He appeared to have just shaved and washed his hair, though Rayford had 
not been aware he had the time for that. His suit, shirt, and tie were exquisite, and 
he was understatedly elegant in his accessories. He waited ever so briefly, one hand 
in his right suit pocket, the other carrying a thin, glove-leather portfolio. Always 
looking as if he's busily at the task at hand, Rayford thought. 
Rayford was amazed at Carpathia's ability to strike just the right pose and 
expression. He appeared concerned, grave, and yet somehow purposeful and 
confident. As lights flashed all around him and cameras whirred, he resolutely 
descended the steps and approached a bank of microphones. Every network insignia 
on each microphone had been redesigned to include the letters ¡§GCN,¡¨ the Global 
Community Network. 
The only person he couldn't fully control chose that moment to burst Carpathia's 
bubble of propriety. Hattie Durham broke from the crowd and ran directly for him. 
Security guards who stepped in her way quickly realized who she was and let her 
through. She did everything, Rayford thought, except squeal in delight. Carpathia 
looked embarrassed and awkward for the first time in Rayford's memory. It was as 
if he had to decide which would be worse: to brush her off or to welcome her to his 
side. 

He chose the latter, but it was clear he was holding her at bay. She leaned in to kiss 
him and he bent to brush her cheek with his lips. When she turned to plant an openmouthed 
kiss on his lips, he pulled her ear to his mouth and whispered sternly. 
Hattie looked stricken. Near tears, she began to pull away from him, but he grabbed 
her wrist and kept her standing next to him there at the microphones. 
¡§It is so good to be back where I belong,¡¨ he said. ¡§It is wonderful to reunite with 
loved ones. My fiancee is overcome with grief, as I am, at the horrible events that 
began so relatively few hours ago. This is a difficult time in which we live, and yet 
our horizons have never been wider, our challenges so great, our future so 
potentially bright. 
¡§That may seem an incongruous statement in light of the tragedy and devastation 
we have all suffered, but we are all destined for prosperity if we commit to standing 
together. We will stand against any enemy of peace and embrace any friend of the 
Global Community.¡¨ 
The crowd, including the press, applauded with just the right solemnity. Rayford 
was sick to his stomach, eager to get to his own apartment, and desperate to phone 
his wife as soon as he was sure it was daytime in the States. 
¡§Don't worry about me, buddy boy,¡¨ Ken Ritz told Buck as he helped him off the 
Learjet. ¡§I'll hangar this baby and find a place to crash for a few days. I've always 
wanted to tour this country, and it's nice to be in a place that hasn't been blown to 
bits. You know how to reach me. When you're ready to head back, just leave a 
message here at the airport. I'll be checking in frequently.¡¨ 
Buck thanked him and grabbed his bag, slinging it over his shoulder. He headed 
toward the terminal. There, beyond the plate-glass window, he saw the enthusiastic 
wave of the wispy little old man with the flyaway hair, Chaim Rosenzweig. How he 
wanted this man to become a believer! Buck had come to love Chaim. That was not 
an expression he would have used about the other man back when he first met the 
scientist. It had been only a few years, but it seemed so long ago. Buck had been the 
youngest senior writer in the history of Global Weekly¡X in fact, in the history of 
international journalism. He had unabashedly campaigned for the job of profiling 
Dr. Rosenzweig as the Weekly's ¡§Man of the Year.¡¨ 
Buck had first met the man a little more than a year before that assignment, after 
Rosenzweig had won a huge international prize for his invention (Chaim himself 
always called it more of a discovery) of a botanic formula. 
Rosenzweig's concoction, some said without much exaggeration, allowed flora to 
grow anywhere¡Xeven on concrete. 
The latter had never been proven; however, the desert sands of Israel soon began to 
blossom like a greenhouse. Flowers, corn, beans, you name it, every spare inch of 
the tiny nation was quickly cleared for agriculture. Overnight, Israel had become the 

richest nation in the world. 
Other nations had been jealous to get hold of the formula. Clearly, this was the 
answer to any economic woes. Israel had gone from vulnerable, geographically 
defenseless country to a world power¡Xrespected, feared, envied. 
Rosenzweig had become the man of the hour and, according to Global Weekly, 
¡§Man of the Year.¡¨ 
Buck had enjoyed meeting him more than any powerful politician he had ever 
interviewed. Here was a brilliant man of science, humble and self-effacing, naive to 
the point of childlikeness, warm, personable, and unforgettable. He treated Buck 
like a son. 
Other nations wanted Rosenzweig's formula so badly that they assigned high-level 
diplomats and politicians to court him. He acceded to audiences from so many 
dignitaries that his life's work had to be set aside. He was past retirement age 
anyway, but clearly here was a man more comfortable in a laboratory or a 
classroom than in a diplomatic setting. The darling of Israel had become the icon of 
world governments, and they all came calling. 
Chaim had told Buck at one point that each suitor had his own not-so-hidden 
agenda. ¡§I did my best to remain calm and diplomatic,¡¨ he told Buck, ¡§but only 
because I was representing my mother country. I grew almost physically ill,¡¨ he 
added with his charming Hebrew-accented dialect, ¡§when each began trying to 
persuade me that I would personally become the wealthiest man in the world if I 
would condescend to rent them my formula.¡¨ 
The Israeli government was even more protective of the formula. They made it so 
clear that the formula was not for sale or rent that other countries threatened war 
over it, and Russia actually attacked. Buck had been in Haifa the night the 
warplanes came screaming in. The miraculous delivery of that country from any 
damage, injury, or death¡Xdespite the incredible aerial assault¡X made Buck a 
believer in God, though not yet in Christ. There was no other explanation for 
bombs, missiles, and warships crashing and burning all over the nation, yet every 
citizen and building escaping unscathed. 
That had sent Buck, who had feared for his life that night, on a quest for truth that 
was satisfied only after the vanishings and his meeting Rayford and Chloe Steele. 
It had been Chaim Rosenzweig who had first mentioned the name Nicolae 
Carpathia to Buck. Buck had asked the old man if any of those who had been sent to 
court him about the formula had impressed him. Only one, Rosenzweig had told 
him; a young midlevel politician from the little country of Romania. Chaim had 
been taken with Carpathia's pacifist views, his selfless demeanor, and his insistence 
that the formula had the potential to change the world and save lives. It still rang in 
Buck's ears that Chaim Rosenzweig had once told him, ¡§You and Carpathia must 
meet one day. You would like each other.¡¨ 

Buck could hardly remember when he had not been aware of Nicolae Carpathia, 
though his first exposure even to the name had been in that interview with 
Rosenzweig. Within days after the vanishings, the man who had seemingly 
overnight become president of Romania was a guest speaker at the United Nations. 
His brief address was so powerful, so magnetic, so impressive, that he had drawn a 
standing ovation even from the press¡Xeven from Buck. Of course, the world was in 
shock, terrified by the disappearances, and the time had been perfect for someone to 
step to the fore and offer a new international agenda for peace, harmony, and 
brotherhood. 
Carpathia was thrust, ostensibly against his will, into power. He displaced the 
former secretary-general of the United Nations, reorganized it to include ten 
international mega-territories, renamed it the Global Community, moved it to 
Babylon (which was rebuilt and renamed New Babylon), and then set about 
disarming the entire globe. 
It had taken more than Carpathia's charismatic personality to effect all this. He had a 
trump card. He had gotten to Rosenzweig. He had convinced the old man and his 
government that the key to the new world was Carpathia's and Global Community's 
ability to broker Rosenzweig's formula in exchange for compliance with 
international rules for disarmament. In exchange for a Carpathia-signed guarantee 
of at least seven years of protection from her enemies, Israel licensed to him the 
formula that allowed him to extract any promise he needed from any country in the 
world. With the formula, Russia could grow grain in the frozen tundra of Siberia. 
Destitute African nations became hothouses of domestic food sources and 
agricultural exports. 
The power the formula allowed Carpathia to wield made it possible for him to bring 
the rest of the world willingly to its knees. Under the guise of his peacenik 
philosophies, member nations of the Global Community were required to destroy 90 
percent of their weaponry and to donate the other 10 percent to Global Community 
headquarters. Before anyone realized what had happened, Nicolae Carpathia, now 
called the grand potentate of the Global Community, had quietly become the most 
militarily powerful pacifist in the history of the globe. Only those few nations that 
were suspicious of him kept back any firepower. Egypt, the new United States of 
Great Britain, and a surprisingly organized underground group of American militia 
forces had stockpiled just enough fire-power to become a nuisance, an irritant, a 
trigger for Carpathia's angry retaliation. In short, their insurrection and his 
incredible overreaction had been the recipe for World War III, which the Bible had 
symbolically foretold as the Red Horse of the Apocalypse. 
The irony of all this was that the sweet-spirited and innocent Chaim Rosenzweig, 
who always seemed to have everyone else's interests at heart, became an unabashed 
devotee of Nicolae Carpathia. The man whom Buck and his loved ones in the 
Tribulation Force had come to believe was Antichrist himself played the gentle 
botanist like a violin. Carpathia included Rosenzweig in many visible diplomatic 

situations and even pretended Chaim was part of his elite inner circle. It was clear to 
everyone else that Rosenzweig was merely tolerated and humored. Carpathia did 
what he wanted. Still, Rosenzweig nearly worshiped the man, once intimating to 
Buck that if anyone embodied the qualities of the long-sought Jewish Messiah, it 
was Nicolae himself. 
That had been before one of Rosenzweig's younger proteges, Rabbi Tsion Ben- 
Judah, had broadcast to the world the findings of his government-sanctioned quest 
for what Israel should look for in the Messiah. 
Rabbi Ben-Judah, who had conducted a thorough study of ancient manuscripts, 
including the Old and New Testaments, had come to the conclusion that only Jesus 
Christ had fulfilled all the prophecies necessary to qualify for the role. To his regret, 
Rabbi Ben-Judah had come just short of receiving Christ and committing his life to 
him when the Rapture occurred. That sealed for sure his view that Jesus was 
Messiah and had come for his own. The Rabbi, in his mid-forties, had been left 
behind with a wife of six years and two teenage stepchildren, a boy and a girl. He 
had shocked the world, and especially his own nation, when he withheld the 
conclusion of his three-year study until a live international television broadcast. 
Once he had clearly stated his belief, he became a marked man. 
Though Ben-Judah had been a student, protege, and eventually a colleague of Dr. 
Rosenzweig, the latter still considered himself a nonreligious, nonpracticing Jew. In 
short, he did not agree with Ben-Judah's conclusion about Jesus, but mostly it was 
simply something he didn't want to talk about. 
That, however, made him no less a friend of Ben-Judah's and no less an advocate. 
When Ben-Judah, with the encouragement and support of the two strange, 
otherworldly preachers at the Wailing Wall, began sharing his message, first at 
Teddy Kollek Stadium and then in other similar venues around the world, everyone 
knew it was just a matter of time before he would suffer for it. 
Buck knew that one reason Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah was still alive was that any 
attempt on his life was treated by the two preachers, Moishe and Eli, as attempts on 
their own. Many had died mysterious and fiery deaths trying to attack those two. 
Most everyone knew that Ben-Judah was ¡§their guy,¡¨ and thus he had so far eluded 
mortal harm. 
That safety seemed at an end now, and that was why Buck was in Israel. Buck was 
convinced that Carpathia himself was behind the horror and tragedy that had come 
to Ben-Judah's family. News reports said black-hooded thugs pulled up to Ben- 
Judah's home in the middle of a sunny afternoon when the teenagers had just 
returned from Hebrew school. Two armed guards were shot to death, and Mrs. Ben- 
Judah and her son and daughter were dragged out into the street, decapitated, and 
left in pools of their own blood. 
The murderers had driven away in a nondescript and unmarked van. Ben-Judah's 
driver had raced to the rabbi's university office as soon as he heard the news, and he 

had reportedly driven Ben-Judah to safety. Where, no one knew. Upon his return, 
the driver denied knowledge of Ben-Judah's whereabouts to the authorities and the 
press, claiming he had not seen him since before the murders and that he merely 
hoped to hear from him at some point. 
CHAPTER EIGHT 
RAYFORD thought he had had enough sleep, catching catnaps on his long journey. 
He had not figured the toll that tension and terror and disgust would exact on his 
mind and body. In his and Amanda's own apartment, as comfortable as airconditioning 
could make a place in Iraq, Rayford disrobed to his boxers and sat on 
the end of his bed. Shoulders slumped, elbows on knees, he exhaled loudly and 
realized how exhausted he truly was. He had finally heard from home. He knew 
Amanda was safe, Chloe was on the mend, and Buck¡Xas usual¡Xwas on the move. 
He didn't know what he thought about this Verna Zee threatening the security of the 
Tribulation Force's new safe house (Loretta's). But he would trust Buck, and God, in 
that. 
Rayford stretched out on his back atop the bedcovers. He put his hands behind his 
head and stared at the ceiling. How he'd love to get a peek at the treasure trove of 
Bruce's computer archives. But as he drifted off to a sound sleep, he was trying to 
figure a way to get back to Chicago by Sunday. Surely there had to be some way he 
could make it to Bruce's memorial service. He was pleading his case with God as 
sleep enveloped him. 
Buck had often been warmed by Chaim Rosenzweig's ancient-faced smile of 
greeting. There was no hint of that now. As Buck strode toward the old man, 
Rosenzweig merely opened his arms for an embrace and said hoarsely, ¡§Cameron! 
Cameron!¡¨ 
Buck bent to hug his tiny friend, and Rosenzweig clasped his hands behind Buck 
and squeezed tightly as a child. He buried his face in Buck's neck and wept bitterly. 
Buck nearly lost his balance, the weight of his bag pulling him one way and Chaim 
Rosenzweig's vice-grip pulling him forward. He felt as if he might stumble and fall 
atop his friend. He fought to stay upright, holding Chaim and letting him cry. 
Finally Rosenzweig released his grip and pulled Buck toward a row of chairs. Buck 
became aware of Rosenzweig's tall, dark-complected driver standing about ten feet 
away with his hands clasped before him. He appeared concerned for his employer, 
and embarrassed. 
Chaim nodded toward him. ¡§You remember Andre,¡¨ Rosenzweig said. 
¡§Yeah,¡¨ Buck said, nodding, ¡§how ya doin'?¡¨ Andre responded in Hebrew. He 

neither spoke nor understood English. Buck knew no Hebrew. 
Rosenzweig spoke to Andre and he hurried away. ¡§He'll bring the car around,¡¨ 
Chaim said. 
¡§I have only a few days here,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§What can you tell me? Do you know 
where Tsion is?¡¨ 
¡§No! Cameron, it's so terrible! What a hideous, horrible defiling of a man's family 
and of his name!¡¨ 
¡§But you heard from him¡X¡¨ 
¡§One phone call. He said you would know where to begin looking for him. But, 
Cameron, have you not heard the latest?¡¨ 
¡§I can't imagine.¡¨ 
¡§The authorities are trying to implicate him in the murders of his own family.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, come on! No one is going to buy that! Nothing even points in that direction. 
Why would he do that?¡¨ 
¡§Of course, you and I know he would never do such a thing, Cameron, but when 
evil elements are out to get you, they stop at nothing. You heard, of course, about 
his driver.¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
Rosenzweig shook his head and lowered his chin to his chest. 
¡§What?¡¨ Buck asked. ¡§Not him too?¡¨ 
¡§I'm afraid so. A car bombing. His body was barely recognizable.¡¨ 
¡§Chaim! Are you sure you're safe? Does your driver know how to¡X¡¨ 
¡§Drive defensively? Check for car bombs? Defend himself or me? Yes to all of 
those. Andre is quite skilled. It makes me no less terrified, I admit, but I feel I am 
protected the best I can be.¡¨ 
¡§But you are associated with Dr. Ben-Judah. Those looking for him will try to 
follow you to him.¡¨ 
¡§Which means you should not be seen with me either,¡¨ Rosenzweig said. 
¡§It's too late for that,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Don't be too sure. Andre assured me we were not followed here. It wouldn't 
surprise me if someone picked us up at this point and followed us, but for the 
instant, I believe we are here undetected.¡¨ 
¡§Good! I cleared customs with my phony passport. Did you use my name when 
booking me a room?¡¨ 
¡§Unfortunately I did, Cameron. I'm sorry. I even used my own name to secure it.¡¨ 
Buck had to suppress a smile at the man's sweet naivete. ¡§Well, friend, we'll just use 

that to keep them off our trail, hm?¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, I'm afraid I'm not too good at all this.¡¨ 
¡§Why don't you have Andre drive you directly to that hotel. Tell them my plans 
have changed and that I will not be in until Sunday.¡¨ 
¡§Cameron! How do you think of such things so quickly?¡¨ 
¡§Hurry now. And we must not be seen together anymore. I will leave here no later 
than Saturday night. You can reach me at this number.¡¨ 
¡§Is it secure?¡¨ 
¡§It's a satellite phone, the latest technology. No one can tap into it. Just don't put my 
name next to that number, and don't give that number to anyone else.¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, where will you begin looking for Tsion?¡¨ 
¡§I have a couple of ideas,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§And you must know, if I can get him out of 
this country, I'll do it.¡¨ 
¡§Excellent! If I were a praying man, I'd pray for you.¡¨ 
¡§Chaim, one of these days soon, you need to become a praying man.¡¨ 
Chaim changed the subject. ¡§One more thing, Cameron. I have placed a call to 
Carpathia for his assistance in this.¡¨ 
¡§I wish you hadn't done that, Chaim. I don't trust him the way you do.¡¨ 
¡§I've sensed that, Buck,¡¨ Rosenzweig said, ¡§but you need to get to know the man 
better.¡¨ 
If you only knew, Buck thought. ¡§Chaim, I'll try to communicate with you as soon 
as I know anything. Call me only if you need to.¡¨ 
Rosenzweig embraced him fiercely again and hurried off. Buck used a pay phone to 
call the King David Hotel. He booked a room for two weeks under the name of 
Herb Katz. ¡§Representing what company?¡¨ the clerk said. 
Buck thought a moment. ¡§International Harvester,¡¨ he said, deciding that that would 
have been a great description of both Bruce Barnes and Tsion Ben-Judah. 
Rayford's eyes popped open. He had not moved a muscle. He had no idea how long 
he had slept, but something had interrupted his reverie. The jangling phone on the 
bedside table made him jump. Reaching for it, he realized his arm was asleep. It 
didn't want to go where he wanted it to. Somehow he forced himself to grasp the 
receiver. ¡§Steele here,¡¨ he gargled. 
¡§Captain Steele? Are you all right?¡¨ It was Hattie Durham. 
Rayford rolled onto his side and tucked the receiver under his chin. Leaning on his 
elbow, he said, ¡§I'm all right, Hattie. How are you?¡¨ 
¡§Not so good. I'd like to see you if I could.¡¨ Despite the closed curtains, the brilliant 

afternoon sun forced its way into the room. 
¡§When?¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Dinner tonight?¡¨ she said. ¡§About six?¡¨ 
Rayford's mind was reeling. Had she already been told of her lessened role in the 
Carpathia administration? Did he want to be seen in public with her while Amanda 
was away? ¡§Is there a rush, Hattie? Amanda's in the States, but she'll be back in a 
week or so¡X¡¨ 
¡§No, Rayford, I really need to talk to you. Nicolae has meetings from now until 
midnight, and their dinner is being catered. He said he didn't have a problem with 
my talking with you. I know you want to be appropriate and all that. It's not a date. 
Let's just have dinner somewhere where it will be obvious that we're just old friends 
talking. Please?¡¨ 
¡§I guess,¡¨ Rayford said, curious. 
¡§My driver will pick you up at six then, Rayford.¡¨ 
¡§Hattie, do me a favor. If you agree this shouldn't look like a date, don't dress up.¡¨ 
¡§Captain Steele,¡¨ she said, suddenly formal, ¡§stepping out is the last thing on my 
mind.¡¨ 
Buck settled into his room on the third floor of the King David Hotel. On a hunch 
he called the offices of the Global Community East Coast Daily Times in Boston 
and asked for his old friend, Steve Plank. Plank had been his boss at Global Weekly 
what seemed eons ago. He had abruptly left there to become Carpathia's press 
secretary when Nicolae became secretary-general of the United Nations. It wasn't 
long before Steve was tabbed for the lucrative position he now held. 
It was no surprise to Buck to find that Plank was not in the office. He was in New 
Babylon at the behest of Nicolae Carpathia and no doubt feeling very special about 
it. 
Buck showered and took a nap. 
Rayford felt as if he could use another several hours' sleep. He certainly didn't 
intend to stay out long with Hattie Durham. He dressed casually, just barely 
presentable enough for a place like Global Bistro, where Hattie and Nicolae were 
often seen. 
Of course, Rayford would not be able to let on that he had known about Hattie's 
demotion before she did. He would have to let her play the story out with all her 
characteristic emotion and angst. He didn't mind. He owed her that much. He still 
felt guilty about where she was, both geographically and in her life. It didn't seem 
that long ago that she had been the object of his lust. Rayford had never acted on it, 

of course, but it was Hattie whom he was thinking of the night of the Rapture. How 
could he have been so deaf, so blind, so out of touch with reality? A successful 
professional man, married more than twenty years with a college-age daughter and a 
twelve-year-old son, daydreaming about his senior flight attendant and justifying it 
because his wife had been on a religious kick! He shook his head. Irene, the lovely 
little woman he had for so long taken for granted, the one with the name of an aunt 
many years her senior, had known real truth with a capital T long before any of 
them. 
Rayford had always been a churchgoer and would have called himself a Christian. 
But to him church was a place to see and be seen, to network, to look respectable. 
When preachers got too judgmental or too literal, it made him nervous. And when 
Irene had found a new, smaller congregation that seemed much more aggressive in 
their faith, he had begun finding reasons not to go with her. When she started 
talking about the salvation of souls, the blood of Christ, and the return of Christ, he 
became convinced she was off her nut. How long before she had him traipsing 
along behind her, passing out literature door-to-door? 
That was how he had justified the dalliance, only in his mind, with Hattie Durham. 
Hattie was fifteen years his junior, and she was a knockout. Though they had 
enjoyed dinner together a few times and drinks several times, and despite the silent 
language of the body and the eyes, Rayford had never so much as touched her. It 
had not been beyond Hattie to grab his arm as she brushed past him or even to put 
her hands on his shoulders when speaking to him in the cockpit, but Rayford had 
somehow kept from letting things go further. That night over the Atlantic, with a 
fully loaded 747 on autopilot, he had finally worked up the courage to suggest 
something concrete to her. Ashamed as he was now to admit it even to himself, he 
had been ready to take the next, bold, decisive step toward a physical relationship. 
But he had never gotten the words out of his mouth. When he left the cockpit to find 
her, she had nearly bowled him over with the news that about a quarter of his 
passengers had disappeared, leaving everything material behind. The cabin, which 
was normally a black, humming, sleep chamber at four o'clock in the morning, 
quickly became a beehive of panic as people realized what was happening. That was 
the night Rayford told Hattie he didn't know what was happening any more than she 
did. The truth was that he knew all too well. Irene had been right. Christ had 
returned to rapture his church, and Rayford, Hattie, and three-fourths of their 
passengers had been left behind. 
Rayford had not known Buck Williams at that time, didn't know Buck was a first 
class passenger on that very flight. He couldn't know that Buck and Hattie had 
chatted, that Buck had used his computer and the Internet to try to reach her people 
to see if they were OK. Only later would he discover that Buck had introduced 
Hattie to the new, sparkling international celebrity leader, Nicolae Carpathia. 
Rayford had met Buck in New York. Rayford was there to apologize to Hattie for 
his inappropriate actions toward her in the past and to try to convince her of the 

truth about the vanishings. Buck was there to introduce her to Carpathia, to 
interview Carpathia, and to interview Rayford-Hattie's captain. Buck was merely 
trying to put a story together about various views of the disappearances. 
Rayford had been earnest and focused in his attempts to persuade Buck that he had 
found the real truth too. 
That was the night Buck met Chloe. So much had happened in so short a time. Less 
than two years later, Hattie was the personal assistant and lover of Nicolae 
Carpathia, the Antichrist. Rayford, Buck, and Chloe were believers in Christ. And 
all three of them agonized over the plight of Hattie Durham. 
Maybe tonight, Rayford thought, he could finally have some positive influence on 
Hattie. 
Buck had always been able to awaken himself whenever he wanted. The gift had 
failed him very infrequently. He had told himself he wanted to be up and moving by 
6:00 P.M. He awoke on time, less refreshed than he had hoped, but eager to get 
going. He told his cabbie, ¡§The Wailing Wall, please.¡¨ 
Moments later, Buck disembarked. There, not far from the Wailing Wall, behind a 
wrought-iron fence, stood the men Buck had come to know as the two witnesses 
prophesied in Scripture. 
They called themselves Moishe and Eli, and truly they seemed to have come from 
another time and another place. They wore ragged, burlap-like robes. They were 
barefoot with leathery, dark skin. Both had long, dark gray hair and unkempt 
beards. They were sinewy with bony joints and long muscled arms and legs. 
Anyone who dared get close to them smelled smoke. Those who dared attack them 
had been killed. It was as simple as that. Several had rushed them with automatic 
weapons, only to seem to hit an invisible wall and drop dead on the spot. Others had 
been incinerated where they stood, by fire that had come from the witnesses' 
mouths. 
They preached nearly constantly in the language and cadence of the Bible, and what 
they said was blasphemous to the ears of devout Jews. They preached Christ and 
him crucified, proclaiming him the Messiah, the Son of God. 
The only time they had been seen apart from the Wailing Wall was at Teddy Kollek 
Stadium, when they appeared on the platform with Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah, a recent 
convert to Christ. News coverage broadcast around the world showed these two 
strange men, speaking in unison, not using microphones and yet being heard 
distinctly in the back rows. ¡§Come nigh and listen,¡¨ they had shouted, ¡§to the 
chosen servant of the most high God! He is among the first of the 144,000 who shall 
go forth from this and many nations to proclaim the gospel of Christ throughout the 
world! Those who come against him, just as those who have come against us before 
the due time, shall surely die!¡¨ 

The witnesses had not stayed on the platform or even in the stadium for that first big 
evangelistic rally at Kollek Stadium. They slipped away and were back at the 
Wailing Wall by the time the meeting was over. That coming together in a huge 
stadium was reproduced dozens of times in almost every country of the world over 
the next year and a half, resulting in tens of thousands of converts. 
Enemies of Rabbi Ben-Judah did try to ¡§come against¡¨ him during those eighteen 
months, as the witnesses had warned. It seemed others had gotten the point and had 
repented of their intentions. A lull of three to four weeks since any threats on his life 
had been a pleasant respite for the indefatigable Ben-Judah. But now he was in 
hiding, and his family and his driver had been slaughtered. 
Ironically, the last time Buck had been at the Wailing Wall to watch and hear the 
two witnesses, he had been with Rabbi Ben-Judah. They had come back later the 
same night and dared approach the fence and speak to the men who had killed all 
others who had gotten that close. Buck had been able to understand them in his own 
language, though his tape recording of the incident later proved they had been 
speaking in Hebrew. Rabbi Ben-Judah had begun reciting the words of Nicodemus 
from the famous meeting of Jesus by night, and the witnesses had responded the 
way Jesus had. It had been the most chilling night of Buck's life. 
Now, here he was, alone. He was looking for Ben-Judah, who had told Chaim 
Rosenzweig that Buck would know where to start looking. He could think of no 
better place. 
As usual, a huge crowd had gathered before the witnesses, though people knew well 
enough to keep their distance. Even the rage and hatred of Nicolae Carpathia had 
not yet affected Moishe and Eli. More than once, even in public, Carpathia had 
asked if there was not someone who could do away with those two nuisances. He 
had been informed apologetically by military leaders that no weapons seemed 
capable of harming them. The witnesses themselves continually referred to the folly 
of trying to harm them ¡§before the due time.¡¨ 
Bruce Barnes had explained to the Tribulation Force that, indeed, in due time God 
would allow the witnesses to become vulnerable, and they would be attacked. That 
incident was still more than a year and a half away, Buck believed, but even the 
thought of it was a nightmare to his soul. 
This evening the witnesses were doing as they had done every day since the signing 
of the treaty between Israel and Carpathia: They were proclaiming the terrible day 
of the Lord. And they were acknowledging Jesus Christ as ¡§the Mighty God, the 
Everlasting Father, and the Prince of Peace. Let no other man anywhere call himself 
the ruler of this world! Any man who makes such a claim is not the Christ but the 
Antichrist, and he shall surely die! Woe unto anyone who preaches another gospel! 
Jesus is the only true God, maker of heaven and earth!¡¨ 
Buck was always thrilled and moved by the preaching of the witnesses. He looked 
around the crowd and saw people from various races and cultures. He knew from 

experience that many of them understood no Hebrew. They were understanding the 
witnesses in their own tongues, just as he was. 
Buck edged a quarter of the way into the crowd of about three hundred. He stood on 
tiptoes to see the witnesses. Suddenly both stopped preaching and moved forward 
toward the fence. The crowd seemed to step back as one, fearing for its life. The 
witnesses now stood inches from the fence, the crowd keeping about a fifty-foot 
distance with Buck near the back. 
To Buck it seemed clear the witnesses had noticed him. Both stared directly into his 
eyes, and he could not move. Without gesturing or moving, Eli began to preach. 
¡§He who has ears to hear, let him hear! Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek 
Jesus who was crucified. He is not here; for He is risen, as He said.¡¨ 
Believers in the crowd mumbled their amens and their agreement. Buck was riveted. 
Moishe stepped forward and seemed to speak directly to him. ¡§Do not be afraid, for 
I know whom you seek. He is not here.¡¨ 
Eli again: ¡§Go quickly and tell His disciples that Christ is risen from the dead!¡¨ 
Moishe, still staring at Buck: ¡§Indeed He is going before you into Galilee. There 
you will see Him. Behold, I have told you.¡¨ 
The witnesses stood and stared silently for so long, unmoving, it was as if they had 
turned to stone. The crowd grew nervous and began to dissipate. Some waited to see 
if the witnesses would speak again, but they did not. Soon only Buck stood where 
he had stood for the last several minutes. He couldn't take his eyes off the eyes of 
Moishe. The two merely stood at the fence and stared at him. Buck began to 
advance on them, coming to within about twenty feet. The witnesses didn't move. 
They seemed not even to be breathing. Buck noticed no blink, no twitch. In the 
fading twilight, he carefully watched their faces. Neither opened his mouth, and yet 
Buck heard, plain as day in his own language, ¡§He who has ears to hear, let him 
hear.¡¨ 
CHAPTER NINE 
THE intercom summoned Rayford to the front door of his condominium, where 
Hattie's driver waited. He led Rayford to the white stretch Mercedes and opened the 
back door. There was room on the seat next to Hattie, But Rayford chose to sit 
across from her. She had honored his request not to dress up, but even casually 
attired, she looked lovely. He decided not to say so. 
Trouble was etched on her face. ¡§I really appreciate your agreeing to see me.¡¨ 
¡§Sure. What's up?¡¨ 
Hattie glanced toward the driver. ¡§Let's talk at dinner,¡¨ she said. ¡§The Bistro OK?¡¨ 

 Buck stood riveted before the witnesses as the sun went down. He looked around to 
be sure it was still just him and them. ¡§That's all I get? He's in Galilee?¡¨ 
Again, without moving their lips, the witnesses spoke: ¡§He who has ears to hear, let 
him hear.¡¨ 
Galilee? Did it even exist anymore? Where would Buck start, and when would he 
start? Surely he didn't want to be poking around there in the night. He had to know 
where he was going, have some sort of bearing. He spun on his heel to see if any 
taxis were in the area. He saw a few. He turned back to the witnesses. ¡§If I came 
back here later tonight, might I learn more?¡¨ 
Moishe backed away from the fence and sat on the pavement, leaning against a 
wall. Eli gestured and spoke aloud, ¡§Birds of the air have nests,¡¨ he said, ¡§but the 
Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.¡¨ 
¡§I don't understand,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Tell,me more.¡¨ 
¡§He who has ears¡X¡¨ 
Buck was frustrated. ¡§I'll come back at midnight. I'm pleading for your help.¡¨ 
Eli was now backing away too. ¡§Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the 
age.¡¨ 
Buck left, still planning to come back, but also strangely warmed by that last 
mysterious promise. Those were the words of Christ. Was Jesus speaking directly to 
him through the mouths of these witnesses? What an unspeakable privilege! He 
took a cab back to the King David, confident that he would, before long, be reunited 
with Tsion Ben-Judah. 
Rayford and Hattie were welcomed expansively by the maitre d' of the Global 
Bistro. The man recognized her, of course, but not Rayford. ¡§Your usual table, 
ma'am?¡¨ ¡§No, thank you, Jeoffrey, but neither would we like to be hidden.¡¨ 
They were led to a table set for four. But even though two busboys hurried out to 
clear away two sets of dinnerware, and the waiter pulled out a chair for Hattie while 
pointing Rayford to one next to her, Rayford was still thinking of appearances. He 
sat directly across from Hattie, knowing they would nearly have to shout to hear 
each other in the noisy place. The waiter hesitated, looking irritated, and finally 
moved Rayford's tableware back to in front of him. That was something Hattie and 
Rayford might have chuckled over in their past, which included a half-dozen 
clandestine dinners where each seemed to be wondering what the other was thinking 
about their future. Hattie had been more flirtatious than Rayford, though he had 
never discouraged her. 
Televisions throughout the Bistro carried the continuing news of war around the 
world. Hattie signaled for the maitre d', who came running. ¡§I doubt the potentate 

would appreciate this news depressing patrons who came in here for a little 
relaxation.¡¨ 
¡§I'm afraid it's on every station, ma'am.¡¨ 
¡§There's not even a music station of some kind?¡¨ 
¡§I'll check.¡¨ 
Within moments, all the television sets in the Global Bistro showed music videos. 
Several applauded this, but Rayford sensed Hattie barely noticed. 
In the past, when they were playing around the edges of an affair of the mind, 
Rayford had to remind Hattie to order and then encourage her to eat. Her attention 
had been riveted on him, and he had found that flattering and alluring. Now the 
opposite seemed the case. 
Hattie studied her menu as if she faced a final exam on it in the morning. She was as 
beautiful as ever, now twenty-nine and pregnant for the first time. She was early 
enough along that no one would know unless she told them. She had told Rayford 
and Amanda the last time they were together. At that time she seemed thrilled, 
proud of her new diamond, and eager to talk about her pending marriage. She had 
told Amanda that Nicolae was ¡§going to make an honest woman of me yet.¡¨ 
Hattie was wearing her ostentatious engagement ring; however, the diamond was 
turned in toward her palm so only the band was visible. Hattie was clearly not a 
happy woman, and Rayford wondered if this all stemmed from her getting the cold 
shoulder from Nicolae at the airport. He wanted to ask her, but this meeting was her 
idea. She would say what she wanted to say soon enough. 
Though the Global Bistro had a French-sounding name, Hattie herself had helped 
conceive it, and the menu carried international cuisine, mostly American. She 
ordered an unusually large meal. Rayford had just a sandwich. Hattie small-talked 
until she had finished her food, including dessert. Rayford knew all the cliches, such 
as that she was now eating for two, but he believed she was eating out of 
nervousness and in an attempt to put off what she really wanted to talk about. 
¡§Can you believe it's been nearly two years since you last served as my senior flight 
attendant?¡¨ he said, trying to get the ball rolling. 
Hattie sat up straight in her chair, folded her hands in her lap, and leaned forward. 
¡§Rayford, this has been the most incredible two years of my life.¡¨ 
He looked at her expectantly, wondering if she meant that was good or bad. ¡§You've 
expanded your horizons,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Think about it, Rayford. All I ever wanted to be was a flight attendant. The entire 
cheerleading squad at Maine East High School wanted to be flight attendants. We 
all applied, but I was the only one who made it. I was so proud, but flying quickly 
lost its appeal. Half the time I had to remind myself where we were going and when 
we would get there and when we would get back. But I loved the people, I loved the 

freedom of traveling, and I loved visiting all those places. You know I had a couple 
of serious boyfriends here and there, but nothing ever worked out. When I finally 
worked my way up to the planes and routes that only seniority could bring, I had a 
huge crush on one of my pilots, but that never worked either.¡¨ 
¡§Hattie, I wish you wouldn't dredge that up. You know how I feel about that 
period.¡¨ 
¡§I know, and I'm sorry. Nothing ever came of it, though I could have hoped for 
more. I've accepted your explanation and your apology, and that's not what this is 
about at all.¡¨ 
¡§That's good, because as you know, I am again happily married.¡¨ 
¡§I envy you, Rayford.¡¨ 
¡§I thought you and Nicolae were going to get married.¡¨ 
¡§So did I. Now I'm not so sure. And I'm not so sure I want to either.¡¨ 
¡§If you want to talk about it, I'm happy to listen. I'm no expert in matters of the 
heart, so I probably won't have any advice, but I'm an ear if that's what you want.¡¨ 
Hattie waited until the dishes were cleared, then told the waiter, ¡§We'll be here 
awhile.¡¨ 
¡§I'll apply this to your tab,¡¨ the waiter said. ¡§I doubt anyone will be giving you the 
bum's rush.¡¨ He smiled at Rayford, seeming to appreciate his own humor. Rayford 
forced a smile. 
When the waiter was gone, Hattie seemed to feel the freedom to continue. ¡§Rayford, 
you may not know this, but I actually had a thing for Buck Williams once. You 
remember he was on your plane that night.¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§I didn't look at him romantically then, of course, because I was still enamored with 
you. But he was sweet. And he was cute. And he had that big, important job. He and 
I are closer in age, too.¡¨ 
¡§And ... ?¡¨ 
¡§Well, to tell you the truth, when you dumped me¡X¡¨ 
¡§Hattie, I never dumped you. There was nothing to dump. We were not an item.¡¨ 
¡§Yet.¡¨ 
¡§OK, yet,¡¨ he said. ¡§That's fair. But you have to admit there had been no 
commitment or even an expression of a commitment.¡¨ 
¡§There had been plenty of signals, Rayford.¡¨ 
¡§I have to acknowledge that. Still, it's unfair to say I dumped you.¡¨ 
¡§Call it whatever you want so you can deal with it, but I felt dumped, OK? Anyway, 
all of sudden Buck Williams looked more attractive to me than ever. I'm sure he 

thought I was using him to meet a celebrity, which also happened. I was so grateful 
for Buck's introducing me to Nicolae.¡¨ 
¡§Forgive me, Hattie, but this is old news.¡¨ 
¡§I know, but I'm getting somewhere. Bear with me. As soon as I met Nicolae, I was 
stricken. He was only about as much older than Buck as Buck was older than I. But 
he seemed so much older. He was a world traveler, an international politician, a 
leader. He was already the most famous man in the world. I knew he was going 
places. I felt like a giggling schoolgirl and couldn't imagine I had impressed him in 
the least. When he began to show interest, I thought it was merely physical. And, I 
admit, I would have probably slept with him in a minute and not regretted it. We 
had an affair, and I fell in love, but as God is my witness¡Xoh, Rayford, I'm sorry. I 
shouldn't use those kind of references around you¡XI never expected him to be truly 
interested in me. I knew the whole thing was temporary, and I was determined to 
just enjoy it while it lasted. 
¡§It got to the point where I dreaded his being away. I kept telling myself to maintain 
a level head. The end would have to come soon, and I really believe I was prepared 
for it. But then he shocked me. He made me his personal assistant. I had no 
experience, no skills. I knew it was just a way to keep me available to him after 
hours. That was all right with me, though I was afraid of what my life might 
become when he became even busier. Well, my worst fears were realized. He's still 
charming and smooth and dynamic and powerful and the most incredible person 
I've ever met. But I mean exactly to him what I always feared I did. You know the 
man usually works at least eighteen hours a day and sometimes twenty? I mean 
nothing to him, and I know it. 
¡§I used to be involved in some discussions. He used to bounce an idea or two off 
me. But what do I know about international politics? I would make some silly 
statement based on my limited knowledge, and he would either laugh at me or 
ignore me. Then he came to where he never sought my opinions anymore. I was 
allowed little playthings, like helping develop this restaurant and being available to 
greet groups touring the new Global Community headquarters. But I'm merely 
window-dressing now, Rayford. He didn't give me a ring until after I was pregnant, 
and he still hasn't asked me if I would marry him. I guess that's supposed to be 
understood.¡¨ 
¡§By accepting his ring, did you not imply that you would marry him?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Rayford, it wasn't nearly that romantic. He merely asked me to close my eyes 
and stick out my hand. Then he put the ring on my finger. I didn't know what to say. 
He just smiled.¡¨ 
¡§You're saying you don't feel committed?¡¨ 
¡§I don't feel anything anymore. And I don't think he ever felt anything for me except 
physical attraction.¡¨ 

¡§And all the trappings? The wealth? Your own car and driver? I assume you have 
an expense account¡X¡¨ 
¡§I have all that, yes.¡¨ Hattie seemed tired. She continued. ¡§To tell you the truth, all 
that stuff is a lot like what flying was to me. You quickly get tired of the routine. I 
was drunk with the power and the glitter and the glamour of it for a while, sure. But 
it's not who I am. I know no one here. People treat me with deference and respect 
only because of who I live with. But they don't really know him either. Neither do I. 
I'd rather he be mad at me than ignore me. I asked him the other day if I could go 
back to the States for a while and visit my friends and family. He was irritated. He 
said I didn't even have to ask. He said, 'Just let me know and go ahead and arrange 
it. I've got more to do than worry about your little schedule.' I'm just a piece of 
furniture to him, Rayford.¡¨ 
Rayford was biding his time. There was so much he wanted to tell her. ¡§How much 
do you talk?¡¨ 
¡§What do you mean? We don't talk. We just coexist now.¡¨ 
Rayford spoke carefully, ¡§I'm just curious about how much he knows about Chloe 
and Buck.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, you don't have to worry about that. Smart as he is and well connected as he is, 
and for as many 'eyes' as he has out there surveilling everything and everybody, I 
don't think he has any idea of a connection between you and Buck. I have never 
mentioned that Buck married your daughter. And I never would.¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ 
¡§I don't think he needs to know, that's all. For some reason, Rayford, he trusts you 
implicitly on some things and not at all on others.¡¨ 
¡§I've noticed.¡¨ 
¡§What have you noticed?¡¨ she asked. 
¡§Being left out of the plans for the Condor 216, for one,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Yeah,¡¨ she said, ¡§and wasn't that creative of him to use his office suite number as 
part of the name of the plane?¡¨ 
¡§It just seemed bizarre to be his pilot and to be surprised by new equipment.¡¨ 
¡§If you lived with him, that would not surprise you. I've been out of the loop for 
months. Rayford, do you realize that I was not contacted by anyone when the war 
broke out?¡¨ 
¡§He didn't call you?¡¨ 
¡§I didn't know whether he was dead or alive. I heard him on the news, just like 
everyone else. He didn't even call after that. No aide let me know. No assistant so 
much as sent me a memo. I called everywhere. I talked to every person in the 
organization I knew. I even got as far as Leon Fortunato. He told me he would tell 

Nicolae that I called. Can you imagine? He would tell him I called!¡¨ 
¡§So when you saw him at the airstrip ... ?¡¨ 
¡§I was testing him. I won't deny it. I wasn't as eager to see him as I let on, but I was 
giving him one more chance. Wasn't it obvious I spoiled his big appearance?¡¨ 
¡§That's the impression I had,¡¨ Rayford said, wondering if he was wise in 
surrendering his neutral role. 
¡§When I tried to kiss him, he told me it was inappropriate and to act like an adult. 
At least in his remarks he referred to me as his fiancee. He said I was overcome 
with grief, as he was. I know him well enough to know there was no grief. I could 
see it written all over him. He loves this stuff. And regardless of what he says, he's 
right in the middle of it. He talks like a pacifist, but he hopes people will attack him 
so he can justify retaliating. I was so horrified and sad, hearing about all the death 
and destruction, but he comes back here to his self-made palace, pretending to 
grieve with all the heartbroken people around the world. But in private it's like he's 
celebrating. He can't get enough of this. He's rubbing his hands, making plans, 
devising strategies. He's putting together his new team. They're meeting right now. 
Who knows what they'll dream up!¡¨ 
¡§What are you gonna do, Hattie? This is no kind of life for you.¡¨ 
¡§He doesn't even want me in the office anymore.¡¨ 
Rayford knew that but couldn't let on. ¡§What do you mean?¡¨ 
¡§I was actually fired today, by my own fiance. He asked if he could meet me in my 
quarters.¡¨ 
¡§Your quarters?¡¨ 
¡§We don't really live together anymore. I'm just down the hall, and he visits once in 
a great while in the middle of the night¡Xbetween meetings, I guess. But I've been a 
fairly high-maintenance girl-next-door for a long time.¡¨ 
¡§So what did he want?¡¨ 
¡§I thought I knew. I thought he'd been away long enough that he just wanted the 
usual. But he just told me he was replacing me.¡¨ 
¡§You mean you're out?¡¨ 
¡§No. He still wants me around. Still wants me to bear his child. He just thinks the 
job has passed me by. I told him, 'Nicolae, that job passed me by the day before I 
took it. I've never been cut out to be a secretary. I was OK with the public relations 
and the people contacts, but making me your personal assistant was a mistake.'¡¨ 
¡§I always thought you looked the part.¡¨ 
¡§Well, thanks for that, Rayford. But losing that job was a relief in a way.¡¨ 
¡§Only in a way?¡¨ 

¡§Yes. Where does this leave me? I asked him what the future was for us. He had the 
audacity to say, 'Us?' I said, 'Yes! Us! I'm wearing your ring and carrying your 
child. When do we make this permanent?'¡¨ 
Buck woke with a start. He had been dreaming. It was dark. He turned on a small 
lamp and squinted at his watch. He still had several hours before his appointment 
with Moishe and Eli at midnight. But what had that dream been all about? Buck had 
dreamed that he was Joseph, Mary's husband. He had heard an angel of the Lord 
saying, ¡§Arise, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word.¡¨ 
Buck was confused. He had never been communicated to in a dream, by God or 
anyone else. He had always considered dreams just aberrations based on daily life. 
Here he was in the Holy Land, thinking about God, thinking about Jesus, 
communicating with the two witnesses, trying to steer clear of the Antichrist and his 
cohorts. It made sense he might have a dream related to biblical stories. Or was God 
trying to tell him that he would find Tsion Ben-Judah in Egypt, rather than wherever 
it seemed the witnesses were sending him? They always spoke so circumspectly. He 
would have to simply ask them. How could he be expected to understand biblical 
references when he was so new at all this? He wanted to sleep until eleven-thirty 
before taking a cab to the Wailing Wall, but he found it difficult to fall back to sleep 
with the weird dream playing itself over and over in his mind. One thing he didn't 
want to do, especially with the news of war coming out of Cairo, was to go 
anywhere near Egypt. He wasn't much more than two hundred miles from Cairo as 
the crow flew anyway. That was plenty close enough, even if Carpathia had not 
used nuclear weapons on the Egyptian capital. 
Buck lay back in the darkness, wondering. 
Rayford was torn. What could he tell his old friend? She was clearly in pain, clearly 
at a loss. He couldn't blurt that her lover was the Antichrist and that Rayford and his 
friends knew it. What he really wanted was to plead with her, to beg her to receive 
Christ. But hadn't he already done that once? Hadn't he spelled out to her everything 
he had learned following the vanishings, which he now knew as the Rapture? 
She knew the truth. At least she knew what he believed was the truth. He had spilled 
his guts to her, Chloe, and Buck at a restaurant in New York, and he felt he had 
alienated Hattie by repeating what he had said to her earlier that day in private. He 
had been certain his daughter was embarrassed to death. And he had been convinced 
that the erudite Buck Williams was merely tolerating him. It had been a shock to 
find that Chloe took a huge step closer to her own personal decision to follow Christ 
after seeing his passion that night. That meeting had also been a huge influence on 
Buck. 
Now he tried a new tack. ¡§Let me tell you something, Hattie. You need to know that 
Buck and Chloe and I all care very deeply about you.¡¨ 

¡§I know, Rayford, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§I don't think you do know,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§We have all wondered if this was the 
best thing for you, and each of us feels somehow responsible for your having left 
your job and loved ones and gone first to New York and now to New Babylon. And 
for what?¡¨ 
Hattie stared at him. ¡§But I hardly heard from any of you.¡¨ 
¡§We didn't feel we had a right to say anything. You're an adult. It's your life. I felt 
my antics had pushed you away from the aviation industry. Buck feels guilty for 
having introduced you to Nicolae in the first place. Chloe often wonders if she 
couldn't have said or done Something that might have changed your mind.¡¨ 
¡§But why?¡¨ Hattie said. ¡§How did any of you know I was not happy here?¡¨ 
Now Rayford was stuck. How, indeed, did they know? ¡§We just sensed the odds 
were against you,¡¨ he said. 
¡§And I don't suppose I gave you any indication that you were right, always trying to 
impress you whenever I saw you or Buck with Nicolae.¡¨ 
¡§There was that, yes.¡¨ 
¡§Well, Rayford, it may also come as a shock to you to know that I had never 
foreseen becoming pregnant out of wedlock either.¡¨ 
¡§Why should that surprise me?¡¨ 
¡§Because I can't say my morals were exactly pristine. I mean, I was close to an 
affair with you. I'm just saying I wasn't raised that way, and I certainly wouldn't 
have planned to have a baby without being married.¡¨ 
¡§And now?¡¨ 
¡§The same is true now, Rayford.¡¨ Hattie's voice had flattened. It was clear she was 
tired, but now she sounded defeated, almost dead. ¡§I am not going to use this 
pregnancy to force Nicolae Carpathia to marry me. He wouldn't anyway. He's not 
forced by anyone to do anything. If I pushed him, he'd probably tell me to have an 
abortion.¡¨ 
¡§Oh no!¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§You'd never consider that, would you?¡¨ 
¡§Wouldn't consider it? I think about it every day.¡¨ Rayford winced and rubbed his 
forehead. Why did he expect Hattie to live like a believer when she was not? It 
wasn't fair to assume she agreed with him on these issues. ¡§Hattie, do me a big 
favor, will you?¡¨ 
¡§Maybe.¡¨ 
¡§Would you think about that very carefully before you take any action? Would you 
seek counsel from your family, from your friends?¡¨ 
¡§Rayford, I hardly have any friends anymore.¡¨ 

¡§Chloe and Buck and I still consider you our friend. And I believe Amanda could 
become your friend if she got to know you.¡¨ 
Hattie snorted. ¡§I have a feeling that the more Amanda got to know me, the less 
she'd like me.¡¨ 
¡§That just proves you don't know her,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§She's the type who doesn't 
even have to like you to love you, if you know what I mean.¡¨ 
Hattie raised her eyebrows. ¡§What an interesting way to say that,¡¨ she said. ¡§I guess 
that's the way parents feel about their kids sometimes. My dad once told me that, 
when I was a rebellious teenager. He said, 'Hattie, it's a good thing I love you so 
much, because I don't like you at all.' That brought me up short, Rayford. You know 
what I mean?¡¨ 
¡§Sure,¡¨ he said. ¡§You really ought to get to know Amanda. She'd be like another 
mother-figure to you.¡¨ 
¡§One is more than enough,¡¨ Hattie said. ¡§Don't forget, my mother's the one that 
gave me this crazy name that belongs to someone two generations older than me.¡¨ 
Rayford smiled. He had always wondered about that. ¡§Anyway, you said Nicolae 
didn't mind if you took a trip back to the States?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, but that was before the war broke out.¡¨ 
¡§Hattie, several airports are still taking incoming flights. And as far as I know, no 
nuclear-equipped warheads landed on any major cities. The only nuclear radiation 
fallout was in London. You'd want to stay out of there for at least a year, I should 
think. But even the devastation in Cairo didn't have radiation associated with it.¡¨ 
¡§You think he'd still let me go back to the States soon then?¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't know, but I'm trying to get back there by Sunday to check on Amanda 
and to attend a memorial service.¡¨ 
¡§How are you getting there, Rayford?¡¨ 
¡§Commercial. Personally, I think carting around even a dozen or fewer dignitaries is 
extravagant for the Condor 216. Anyway, the potentate¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, please, Rayford, don't call him that.¡¨ 
¡§Does that sound as ridiculous to you as it does to me?¡¨ 
¡§It always has. For such a brilliant, powerful man, that stupid title makes him sound 
like a buffoon.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I don't really know him well enough to call him Nicolae, and that last name 
is a mouthful.¡¨ 
¡§Don't most of you church types consider him the Antichrist?¡¨ 
Rayford flinched. He never would have expected that out of her mouth. Was she 
serious? He decided it was too soon to come clean. ¡§The Antichrist?¡¨ 

¡§I can read,¡¨ she said. ¡§In fact, I like Buck's writing. I've read his pieces in the 
Weekly. When he covers all the various theories and talks about what people think, 
it comes out that there's a big faction who believes that Nicolae might be the 
Antichrist.¡¨ 
¡§I've heard that,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§So you could call him Antichrist, or A.C. for short,¡¨ she said. 
¡§That's not funny,¡¨ he said. 
¡§I know,¡¨ she said. ¡§I'm sorry. I don't go in for all that cosmic war between good 
and evil stuff anyway. I wouldn't know if a person was the Antichrist if he was 
staring me in the face.¡¨ 
He's probably stared you in the face more than anyone else over the last couple of 
years, Rayford thought. 
¡§Anyway, Hattie, I think you should ask¡Xfor lack of a better title¡XGlobal 
Community Grand Potentate Nicolae Carpathia if it's still all right that you take a 
brief trip home. I'm taking a Saturday morning flight that will arrive nonstop in 
Milwaukee at about noon Chicago time the same day. From what I understand, 
there's room in the big house of a woman from our church. You could stay with us.¡¨ 
¡§I couldn't do that, Rayford. My mother is in Denver. They haven't suffered any 
damage yet, have they?¡¨ 
¡§Not as far as I know. I'm sure we could book you through to Denver.¡¨ Rayford was 
disappointed. Here was a chance to have some influence on Hattie, but there would 
be no getting her to the Chicago area. 
¡§I'm not going to ask Nicolae,¡¨ she said. 
¡§You don't want to go?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I want to go. And I will go. I'm just going to leave word that I'm gone. That's 
what he said last time I checked with him. He told me I was an adult and should 
make these decisions for myself. He's got more important things on his mind. 
Maybe I'll see you on the flight to Milwaukee. In fact, unless you hear otherwise 
from me, why don't you assume my driver will pick you up Saturday morning. You 
think it would be all right with Amanda if we sat together?¡¨ 
¡§I hope you're not being facetious,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§because if you really wanted to 
talk, I'd let her know in advance.¡¨ 
¡§Wow, I don't remember your first wife being so possessive.¡¨ 
¡§She would have been if she'd known what kind of a man I was.¡¨ 
¡§Or what kind of a woman I was.¡¨ 
¡§Well, maybe¡X¡¨ 
¡§You go ahead and check with your wife, Rayford. If I have to sit by myself, I'll 
understand. Who knows? Maybe we can sit across the aisle from each other.¡¨ 

Rayford smiled tolerantly. He hoped for at least that. 
CHAPTER TEN 
BUCK followed a strong urge to take his bag when he left the King David that 
night. In it was his small dictation machine, his sub-notebook computer (which 
would soon be replaced by the mother of all computers), his camera, that great cell 
phone, his toiletries, and two changes of clothing. 
He left his key at the front desk and took a cab to the Wailing Wall, asking the 
cabbie if he spoke English. The driver held up his thumb and forefinger an inch 
apart and smiled apologetically. 
¡§How far to Galilee?¡¨ Buck said. 
The cabbie took his foot off the accelerator. ¡§You go to Galilee? Wailing Wall in 
Jerusalem.¡¨ 
Buck waved him on. ¡§I know. Wailing Wall now. Galilee later.¡¨ 
The cabbie headed for the Wailing Wall. ¡§Galilee now Lake Tiberius,¡¨ he said. 
¡§About 120 kilometers.¡¨ 
Hardly anyone was at the Wailing Wall or even in the entire temple mount area at 
this time of the night. The newly rebuilt temple was illuminated magnificently and 
looked like something in a three-dimensional picture show. It seemed to hover on 
the horizon. Bruce had taught Buck that one day Carpathia would sit in that new 
temple and proclaim himself God. The journalist in Buck wanted to be there when 
that happened. 
Buck did not at first see the two witnesses. A small group of sailors strolled past the 
wrought-iron fence at the end of the Wall where the witnesses usually stood and 
preached. The sailors chatted in English and one pointed. ¡§I think that's them, right 
over there,¡¨ he said. The others turned and stared. Buck followed their gaze past the 
fence and to a stone building. The two mysterious figures sat with their backs 
against it, feet tucked under them, chins resting on their knees. They were 
motionless, appearing to sleep. The sailors gawked and tiptoed closer. They never 
got within a hundred feet of the fence, apparently having heard enough stories. They 
weren't going to rouse the two, the way they might do to animals at the zoo for 
sport. These were more than animals. These were dangerous beings who had been 
known to toast people who trifled with them. Buck did not want to draw attention to 
himself by boldly approaching the fence. He waited until the sailors got bored and 
moved on. 
As soon as the young men were out of the area, Eli and Moishe raised their heads 
and looked directly at Buck. He was drawn to them. He walked directly to the fence. 

The witnesses rose and stood about twenty feet from Buck. ¡§I need clarification,¡¨ 
Buck whispered. ¡§Can I know more about my friend's location?¡¨ 
¡§He who has ears¡X¡¨ 
¡§I know that,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§but I¡X¡¨ 
¡§You would dare interrupt the servants of the Most High God?¡¨ Eli said. 
¡§Forgive me,¡¨ Buck said. He wanted to explain himself but decided to remain 
silent. 
Moishe spoke. ¡§You must first communicate with one who loves you.¡¨ 
Buck waited for more. The witnesses stood there, silent. He held out both hands in 
puzzlement. He felt a vibration in his shoulder bag and realized his cell phone was 
buzzing. Now what was he supposed to do? If he wasn't to interrupt the servants of 
the Most High God, did he dare take a call while conversing with them? He felt a 
fool. He moved away from the fence and grabbed the phone, clicked it open, and 
said, ¡§This is Buck.¡¨ 
¡§Buck! It's Chloe! It's about midnight there, right?¡¨ 
¡§Right, Chloe, but right now I'm¡X¡¨ 
¡§Buck, were you sleeping?¡¨ 
¡§No, I'm up and I'm¡X¡¨ 
¡§Buck, just tell me you're not at the King David.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I'm staying there, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§But you're not there right now, right?¡¨ 
¡§No, I'm at¡X¡¨ 
¡§Honey, I don't know how to tell you this, but I just have this feeling that you 
should not be in that hotel tonight. In fact, I just have a premonition that you 
shouldn't be in Jerusalem overnight. I don't know about tomorrow, and I don't know 
about premonitions and all that, but the feeling is so strong¡X¡¨ 
¡§Chloe, I'm gonna need to call you back, OK?¡¨ 
Chloe hesitated. ¡§Well, OK, but you can't take the time to talk to me for a moment 
when¡X¡¨ 
¡§Chloe, I won't stay at the King David tonight, and I won't stay in Jerusalem 
overnight, OK?¡¨ 
¡§That makes me feel better, Buck, but I'd still like to talk¡X¡¨ 
¡§I'll call you back, hon, OK?¡¨ 
Buck didn't know what he thought about this new level of what Bruce had referred 
to as ¡§walking in the spirit.¡¨ The witnesses had implied he would find who he was 
looking for in Galilee, which didn't really exist anymore. The Sea of Galilee was 
now Lake Tiberius. His dream, if he could put any stock in that, implied he should 

go to Egypt for some reason. Now the witnesses wanted him to use his ears to 
understand. He was sorry he was not ¡§John the Revelator,¡¨ but he was going to have 
to ask for more information. And how had they known he had to talk to Chloe first? 
He had been around the two witnesses enough to know that they were never too far 
from the miraculous. He just wished they didn't have to be so cryptic. He was here 
on a dangerous mission. If they could help him, he wanted their help. 
Buck set his bag down and straddled it, trying to indicate that he was willing to stop 
anything else he was doing and simply listen. Moishe and Eli huddled and seemed 
to be whispering. They approached the fence. Buck began to move toward them, as 
he had done the last time he visited with Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah, but both witnesses 
held up a hand and he stopped a few feet from his bag and several feet short of the 
fence. Suddenly the two began to shout at the top of their lungs. Buck was at first 
startled and backed up, tripping over his own bag. He righted himself. Eli and 
Moishe traded off quoting verses Buck recognized from Acts and Bruce's teaching. 
They shouted: ¡§And it shall come to pass in the last days, says God, that I will pour 
out of My Spirit on all flesh; your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your 
young men shall see visions, your old men shall dream dreams.¡¨ 
Buck knew there was more to the passage, but the witnesses stopped and stared at 
him. Was he an old man already, having just turned thirty-two? Was he one of the 
old men who dreamed a dream? Did they know that? Were they telling him his 
dream was valid? 
They continued: ¡§And on My menservants and on My maidservants I will pour out 
My Spirit in those days; and they shall prophesy. I will show wonders in heaven 
above and signs in the earth beneath: blood and fire and vapor of smoke. The sun 
shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming of the 
great and awesome day of the Lord. And it shall come to pass that whoever calls on 
the name of the Lord shall be saved.¡¨ 
Buck was inspired, moved, excited to get on about his task. But where should he 
start? And why couldn't the witnesses just tell him? He was surprised to realize he 
was no longer alone. The shouting of Scripture by the witnesses had produced 
another small crowd. Buck didn't want to wait any longer. He picked up his bag and 
moved toward the fence. People warned him not to advance. He heard warnings in 
other languages, and a few in English. ¡§You'll regret that, son!¡¨ 
Buck came within a few feet of the witnesses. No one else dared come close. He 
whispered, ¡§By 'Galilee' I can only assume you mean Lake Tiberius,¡¨ he said. How 
was one supposed to tell people who seemed to have come back from Bible times 
that their geography was out of date? ¡§Will I find my friend in Galilee, or on the Sea 
of Galilee, or where?¡¨ 
¡§He who has ears to hear ...¡¨ 
Buck knew better than to interrupt and show his frustration. ¡§How do I get there?¡¨ 
he asked. 

Eli spoke softly. ¡§It will go well with you if you return to the multitude,¡¨ he said. 
Return to the multitude? Buck thought. He backed up and rejoined the crowd. 
¡§Are you all right, son?¡¨ someone said. ¡§Did they hurt you?¡¨ Buck shook his head. 
Moishe began to preach in a loud voice: ¡§Now after John was put in prison, Jesus 
came to Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, and saying 'The time 
is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent, and believe in the gospel.' 
¡§And as He walked by the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew his brother 
casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen. Then Jesus said to them, 'Follow 
Me, and I will make you become fishers of men.' 
¡§They immediately left their nets and followed Him.¡¨ 
Buck wasn't sure what to make of all that, but he sensed he had gotten all he was 
going to get from the witnesses that night. Though they continued to preach, and 
more people gathered seemingly from nowhere to listen, Buck drifted away. He 
lugged his bag to a short taxi line and climbed into the back of a small cab. 
¡§Can a fella get a boat ride up the Jordan River into Lake Tiberius at this time of 
night?¡¨ he asked the driver. 
¡§Well, sir, to tell you the truth, it's a lot easier coming the other way. But, yes, there 
are motorized boats heading north. And some do run in the night. Of course, your 
touring boats are daytime affairs, but there's always someone who will take you 
where you want to go for the right price, any time of the day or night.¡¨ 
¡§I figured that,¡¨ Buck said. Not long later he was dickering with a boatman named 
Michael, who refused to give a last name. 
¡§In the daytime I can carry twenty tourists on this rig, and four strong young men 
and I pilot it by arm power, if you know what I mean.¡¨ 
¡§Oars?¡¨ 
¡§Yes sir, just like in the Bible. Boat's made of wood. We cover the twin outboards 
with wood and burlap, and no one's the wiser. Makes for a pretty long, tiring day. 
But when we have to go back upriver, we can't do that with the oars.¡¨ 
It was only Michael, the twin outboards, and Buck heading north after midnight, but 
Buck felt as if he had paid for twenty tourists and four oarsmen as well. Buck began 
the trip standing in the bow and letting the crisp air race through his hair. He soon 
had to zip his leather jacket to the neck and thrust his hands deep into his pockets. 
Before long he was back next to Michael, who piloted the long, rustic, wood boat 
from just ahead of the outboard motors. Few other crafts were on the Jordan that 
night. 
Michael shouted above the wind and the sound of the water. ¡§So, you don't really 
know who you're looking for or exactly where they'll be?¡¨ 
They had set out from near Jericho, and Michael had told him they had more than a 

hundred kilometers to travel against the current. ¡§Could take nearly three hours just 
to get to the mouth of Lake Tiberius,¡¨ he had added. 
¡§I don't know much,¡¨ Buck admitted. ¡§I'm just counting on figuring it out when I 
get there.¡¨ 
Michael shook his head. ¡§Lake Tiberius is no pond. Your friend or friends could be 
on either shore or at either end.¡¨ 
Buck nodded and sat, burying his chin in his chest to keep warm, to think, and to 
pray. 
¡§Lord,¡¨ he said silently, ¡§you've never spoken to me audibly, and I don't expect you 
to start now, but I could sure use more direction. I don't know if the dream was from 
you and I'm supposed to go through Egypt on the way back or what. I don't know if 
I'm going to find Ben-Judah with some fishermen or whether I'm even on the right 
track by heading to the old Sea of Galilee. I've always enjoyed being independent 
and resourceful, but I confess I'm at the end of myself here. A lot of people have to 
be looking for Ben-Judah, and I desperately want to be the first one to find him.¡¨ 
The small craft had just gone around a bend when the engines sputtered and the 
lights, fore and aft, went out. So much for the answer to that prayer, Buck thought. 
¡§Trouble, Michael?¡¨ 
Buck was struck by the sudden silence as the boat drifted. It seemed headed toward 
shore. ¡§No trouble, Mr. Katz. Until your eyes grow accustomed to the darkness, 
you're not going to be able to see that I've got a high-powered weapon pointed at 
your head. I would like you to remain seated and answer a few questions.¡¨ 
Buck felt a strange calmness. This was too bizarre, too strange even for his weird 
life. ¡§I mean you no harm, Michael,¡¨ he said. ¡§You have nothing to fear from me.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not the one who should be afraid just now, sir,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§I have twice 
within the last forty-eight hours fired this weapon into the heads of people I've 
believed were enemies of God.¡¨ 
Buck was nearly speechless. ¡§One thing I can assure you of, Michael, is that I am in 
no way an enemy of God. Are you telling me you are a servant of his?¡¨ 
¡§I am. The question is, Mr. Katz, are you? And if you are, how will you prove it?¡¨ 
¡§Apparently,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§we will need to assure each other we are on the same 
side.¡¨ 
¡§The responsibility is yours. People coming up this river looking for someone I 
don't want them to find wind up dead. If you're the third to go, I'll still sleep like a 
baby tonight.¡¨ 
¡§And you justify this homicide how?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Those were the wrong people looking for the wrong person. What I want from you 
is your real name, the name of the person you're looking for, why you are looking 
for that person, and what you plan to do should you find that person.¡¨ 

¡§But Michael, until I'm sure you are on my side, I could never risk revealing that 
information.¡¨ 
¡§Even to the point where you'd be willing to die to protect your friend?¡¨ 
¡§I hope it doesn't come to that, but yes.¡¨ 
Buck's eyes were adjusting to the darkness. Michael had carefully pointed the craft 
in such a way that when the power had been cut it drifted back and gently nudged 
an outcropping of dirt and rock jutting from the shore. 
¡§I am impressed with that answer,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§But I will not hesitate to add you 
to the list of dead enemies if you can't convince me you have the right motives for 
locating whoever it is you want to locate.¡¨ 
¡§Test me,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§What will convince you I'm not bluffing, but at the same 
time convince me that you have the same person in mind?¡¨ 
¡§Excellent,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§True or false: the person you are looking for is young.¡¨ 
Buck responded quickly. ¡§Compared to you, false.¡¨ 
Michael continued: ¡§The person you are looking for is female.¡¨ 
¡§False.¡¨ 
¡§The person you are looking for is a medical doctor.¡¨ 
¡§False.¡¨ 
¡§A Gentile?¡¨ 
¡§False.¡¨ 
¡§Uneducated?¡¨ 
¡§False.¡¨ 
¡§Bilingual?¡¨ 
¡§False.¡¨ 
Buck heard Michael move the huge weapon in his hands. Buck quickly added, 
¡§Bilingual doesn't say enough. Multilingual is more like it.¡¨ Michael stepped 
forward and pressed the barrel of the weapon against Buck's throat. Buck grimaced 
and shut his eyes. 
¡§The man you are looking for is a rabbi, Dr. Tsion Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
Buck did not respond. The weapon pushed harder against his neck. Michael 
continued: ¡§If you are seeking to kill him, and I was his compatriot, I would kill 
you. If you were seeking to rescue him, and I represented his captors, I would kill 
you.¡¨ 
¡§But in the latter case,¡¨ Buck managed, ¡§you would have been lying about serving 
God.¡¨ 
¡§True enough. And what would happen to me then?¡¨ 

¡§You might kill me, but you will ultimately lose.¡¨ 
¡§And how do we know that?¡¨ 
Buck had nothing to lose. ¡§It's all been foretold. God wins.¡¨ 
¡§If that's true, and I turn out to be your brother, you can tell me your real name.¡¨ 
Buck hesitated. 
¡§If it turns out that I am your enemy,¡¨ Michael continued, ¡§I'll kill you anyway.¡¨ 
Buck couldn't argue with that. ¡§My name is Cameron Williams. I am a friend of Dr. 
Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§Would you be the American he talks about?¡¨ 
¡§Probably.¡¨ 
¡§One last test, if you don't mind.¡¨ 
¡§I seem to have no choice.¡¨ 
¡§True. Quickly list for me six prophecies of Messiah that were fulfilled in Jesus 
Christ, according to the witnesses who preach at the Wailing Wall.¡¨ 
Buck breathed a huge sigh of relief and smiled. ¡§Michael, you are my brother in 
Christ. All the prophecies of the Messiah were fulfilled in Jesus Christ. I can tell 
you six that have to do with your culture alone. He would be a descendant of 
Abraham, a descendant of Isaac, a descendant of Jacob, from the tribe of Judah, heir 
to the throne of David, and born in Bethlehem.¡¨ 
The weapon rattled as Michael lay it on the deck and reached to embrace Buck. He 
squeezed him with a huge bear hug and was laughing and weeping. ¡§And who told 
you where you might find Tsion?¡¨ 
¡§Moishe and Eli.¡¨ 
¡§They are my mentors,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§I am one who became a believer under their 
preaching and that of Tsion.¡¨ 
¡§And have you murdered others looking for Dr. Ben-Judah?¡¨ 
¡§I do not consider it murder. Their bodies will be buoyed up and burned by the salt 
when they reach the Dead Sea. Better their bodies than his.¡¨ 
¡§Are you, then, an evangelist?¡¨ 
¡§In the manner of Paul the apostle, according to Dr. Ben-Judah. He says there are 
144,000 of us around the world, all with the same assignment that Moishe and Eli 
have: to preach Christ as the only everlasting Son of the Father.¡¨ 
¡§Would you believe you were an almost instant answer to prayer?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§That would not surprise me in the least,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§You must realize that you 
are the same.¡¨ 
Buck was spent. He was glad Michael had to go back to the outboards and busy 

himself with the boat. Buck turned his face away and wept. God was so good. 
Michael left him alone with his thoughts for a while, but then called out with good 
news. ¡§You know, we're not going all the way to Lake Tiberius.¡¨ 
¡§We're not?¡¨ Buck said, moving back toward Michael. 
¡§You're doing what you're supposed to do by heading toward Galilee,¡¨ Michael 
said. ¡§About halfway between Jericho and Lake Tiberius we will put ashore on the 
east side of the river. We will hike about five kilometers inland to where my 
compatriots and I have hidden Dr. Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§How are you able to elude the zealots?¡¨ 
¡§An escape plan has been in place since the first time Dr. Ben-Judah spoke at 
Kollek Stadium. For many months we thought the guarding of his family was 
unnecessary. It was him the zealots wanted. At the first sign of a threat or an attack, 
we sent to Tsion's office a car so small it appeared only the driver could fit in it. 
Tsion lay on the floor of the backseat, curled into a ball and covered with a blanket. 
He was raced to this very boat, and I took him upriver.¡¨ 
¡§And these stories about his driver having been in on the slaughter of his family?¡¨ 
Michael shook his head. ¡§That man was exonerated in a most decisive way, would 
you not agree?¡¨ 
¡§Was he also a believer?¡¨ 
¡§Sadly, no. But he was loyal and sympathetic. We believed it was only a matter of 
time. We were wrong. Dr. Ben-Judah is not aware of the loss of his driver, by the 
way.¡¨ 
¡§He, of course, knows about his family?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, and you can imagine how awful that is for him. When we loaded him into the 
boat he remained in that fetal position, covered by the blanket. In a way, that was 
good. It allowed us to keep him in hiding until we got him to the drop-off point. I 
could hear his loud sobbing over the sound of the boat throughout the entire voyage. 
I can still hear it.¡¨ 
¡§Only God can console him,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I pray so,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§I confess, the consolation period has not yet begun. He 
has not been able to speak. He cries and cries.¡¨ 
¡§What are your plans for him?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§He must leave the country. His life is worthless here. His enemies far outnumber 
us. He will not be safe anywhere, but at least outside Israel he has a chance.¡¨ 
¡§And where will you and your friends take him?¡¨ 
¡§Me and my friends!?¡¨ 
¡§Who, then?¡¨ 

¡§You, my friend!¡¨ 
¡§Me?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§God spoke through the two witnesses. He assured us a deliverer would come. He 
would know the rabbi. He would know the witnesses. He would know the messianic 
prophecies. And most of all, he would know the Lord's Christ. That, my friend, is 
you.¡¨ 
Buck nearly buckled. He had felt God's protection. He had felt the excitement of 
serving him. But he had never felt so directly and specifically a servant of his. He 
was humbled to the point of shame. He felt suddenly unworthy, undisciplined, 
inconsistent. He had been so blessed, and what had he done with his newfound 
faith? He had tried to be obedient, and he had tried to tell others. But surely he was 
unworthy to be used in such a way. ¡§What do you expect me to do with Tsion?¡¨ 
¡§We don't know. We assumed you would smuggle him out of the country.¡¨ 
¡§That will not be easy.¡¨ 
¡§Face it, Mr. Williams, it was not easy for you to find the rabbi, was it? You very 
nearly got yourself killed.¡¨ 
¡§Did you think you were going to have to kill me?¡¨ 
¡§I was merely hopeful that I would not. The odds were against your being the agent 
of delivery, but I was praying.¡¨ 
¡§Is there an airport anywhere near that can handle a Learjet?¡¨ 
¡§There is a strip west of Jericho near Al Birah.¡¨ 
¡§That's back downriver, right?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, which is an easier trip, of course. But you know that is the airport that serves 
Jerusalem. Most flights in and out of Israel start or end at Ben Gurion Airport in Tel 
Aviv, but there is also a lot of air traffic near Jerusalem.¡¨ 
¡§The rabbi has to be one of the most recognizable people in Israel,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§How in the world will I get him through customs?¡¨ 
Michael smiled in the darkness. ¡§How else? Super-naturally.¡¨ 
Buck asked for a blanket, which Michael produced from a compartment near the 
back. Buck wrapped it around his shoulders and pulled it up over his head. ¡§How 
much farther?¡¨ he asked. 
¡§About another twenty minutes,¡¨ Michael said. 
¡§I need to tell you something you may find strange,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Something stranger than tonight?¡¨ 
Buck chuckled. ¡§I don't suppose. It's just that I may have been warned in a dream to 
leave through Egypt rather than Israel.¡¨ 
¡§You may have?¡¨ 

¡§I'm not used to this kind of communication from God, so I don't know.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't argue with a dream that seemed to come from God,¡¨ Michael said. 
¡§But does it make sense?¡¨ 
¡§It makes more sense than trying to smuggle a target of the zealots out of here 
through an international airport.¡¨ 
¡§But Cairo has been destroyed. Where are flights in and out of there being rerouted 
to?¡¨ 
¡§Alexandria,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§But still, you have to get out of Israel somehow.¡¨ 
¡§Find me a small strip somewhere, and we can avoid customs and go from there.¡¨ 
¡§What then do you do about going through Egypt?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know what to make of it. Maybe the dream simply meant I should take 
other than a usual route.¡¨ 
¡§One thing is certain,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§This will have to be done after dark. If not 
tonight, then tomorrow night.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't be able to do it tonight if the skies opened and God pointed in my face.¡¨ 
Michael smiled. ¡§My friend, if I had gone through what you've gone through and 
seen prayer answered the way you have, I would not be challenging God to do 
something so simple.¡¨ 
¡§Let's just say then that I am praying God will let me wait one more day. I have to 
be in touch with my pilot, and we're all going to have to work together at 
determining the best spot from which to head back to the United States.¡¨ 
¡§There is one thing you should know,¡¨ Michael said. 
¡§Just one?¡¨ 
¡§No, but something very important. I believe Dr. Ben-Judah will be reluctant to 
flee.¡¨ 
¡§What choice does he have?¡¨ 
¡§That's just it. He may not want a choice. With his wife and children gone, he may 
see no reason to go on, let alone to live.¡¨ 
¡§Nonsense! The world needs him! We must keep his ministry alive.¡¨ 
¡§You don't need to convince me, Mr. Williams. I'm just telling you, you may have a 
selling job to get him to flee to the United States. I believe, however, that he will 
likely be safer there than anywhere, if he can be safe anyplace.¡¨ 
¡§Your boots will stay driest if you stand in the bow and leap out when you hear the 
bottom scraping the sand,¡¨ Michael said. He had turned east and raced toward the 
shore. In what seemed to Buck the last instant, Michael cut the engines and raised 
them from the water. He nimbly jogged up next to Buck and peeled his eyes, 
bracing himself. ¡§Fling your bag as far as you can, jump with me, and make sure 

you outrun the boat!¡¨ 
The boat slid along the bottom, and Buck followed orders. But when he leaped, he 
fell sideways and rolled. The boat barely missed him. He sat up, covered with wet 
sand. 
¡§Help me, please!¡¨ Michael said. He had grabbed the boat and was tugging it onto 
land. Once they had secured it, Buck brushed himself off, happily found his boots 
were fairly dry, and began following his new friend. Buck had only his bag. 
Michael had only his weapon. But he also knew where he was going. 
¡§I must ask you to be very silent now,¡¨ Michael whispered as they pushed their way 
through underbrush. ¡§We are secluded, but we take no chances.¡¨ 
Buck had forgotten how long five kilometers could be. The ground was uneven and 
moist. The overgrowth slapped him in the face. He switched his bag from shoulder 
to shoulder, never fully comfortable. He was in good shape, but this was hard. This 
was not jogging or cycling or running on a treadmill. This was working your way 
through sandy shoreline to who knew where? 
He dreaded seeing Dr. Ben-Judah. He wanted to be Reunited with his friend and 
brother in Christ, but what does one say to one who has lost his family? No 
platitudes, no words would make it better. The man had paid one of the steepest 
prices anyone could pay, and nothing short of heaven could make it better. 
Half an hour later, panting and sore, he and Michael came within sight of the 
hideout. Michael put a finger to his lips and bent low. He held aside a bundle of 
dried twigs, and they advanced. Twenty yards farther, in a grove of trees, was an 
opening to an underground shelter invisible to anyone who hadn't come there on 
purpose. 
CHAPTER ELEVEN 
BUCK was struck that there were no real beds and no pillows in the hideout. So this 
is what the witnesses meant when they quoted that verse about having nowhere to 
lay his head, Buck thought. 
Three other gaunt and desperate-looking young men, who could have been 
Michael's brothers, huddled in the dugout, where there was barely room to stand. 
Buck noticed a clear view at ground level to the path behind him. That explained 
why Michael had not had to declare himself or give any signal to approach. 
He was introduced all around, but only Michael, of the four, understood English. 
Buck squinted, looking for Tsion. He could hear him, but he could not see him. 
Finally, a dim, electric lantern was illuminated. There, sitting in the corner, his back 
to the wall, was one of the first and surely the most famous of what would become 
the 144,000 witnesses prophesied of in the Bible. 

He sat with his knees pulled up to his chest, arms wrapped around his legs. He wore 
a white dress shirt with the sleeves rolled up and dark dress pants that rode high on 
his shins and left a gap between the cuffs and the top of his socks. He wore no 
shoes. 
How young Tsion appeared! Buck knew him to be a youthful middle age anyway, 
but sitting there rocking and crying he appeared young as a child. He neither looked 
up nor acknowledged Buck. 
Buck whispered that he would like a moment alone with Tsion. Michael and the 
others climbed through the opening and stood idly in the underbrush, weapons at 
the ready. Buck crouched next to Dr. Ben-Judah. 
¡§Tsion,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§God loves you.¡¨ The words had surprised even Buck. Could it 
possibly seem to Tsion that God loved him now? And what kind of a platitude was 
that? Was it now his place to speak for God? 
¡§What do you know for sure?¡¨ Buck asked, wondering himself what in the world he 
was talking about. Tsion's reply, in his barely understandable Israeli accent, 
squeaked from a constricted throat: ¡§I know that my Redeemer lives.¡¨ 
¡§What else do you know?¡¨ Buck said, listening as much as speaking. 
¡§I know that He who has begun a good work in me will be faithful to complete it.¡¨ 
Praise God! Buck thought. Buck slumped to the ground and sat next to Ben-Judah, 
his back against the wall. He had come to rescue this man, to minister to him. Now 
he had been ministered to. Only God could provide such assurance and confidence 
at a time of such grief. 
¡§Your wife and your children were believers¡X¡¨ 
¡§Today they see God,¡¨ Tsion finished for him. 
Buck had worried, Buck had wondered: Would Tsion Ben-Judah be so devastated at 
his inequitable loss that his faith would be shaken? Would he be so fragile that it 
would be impossible for him to go on? He would grieve, make no mistake. He 
would mourn. But not as the heathen, who have no hope. 
¡§Cameron, my friend,¡¨ Tsion managed, ¡§did you bring your Bible?¡¨ 
¡§Not in book form, sir. I have the entire Scripture on my computer.¡¨ 
¡§I have lost more than my family, Buck.¡¨ 
¡§Sir?¡¨ 
¡§My library. My sacred books. All burned. All gone. The only things I love more in 
this life were my family.¡¨ 
¡§You brought nothing from your office?¡¨ 
¡§I threw on a ridiculous disguise, the long locks of the Orthodox. Even a phony 
beard. I carried nothing, so as not to look like a resident scholar.¡¨ 

¡§Could not someone forward the books from your office?¡¨ 
¡§Not without endangering their life. I am the chief suspect in the murder of my 
family.¡¨ 
¡§That's nonsense!¡¨ 
¡§We both know that, my friend, but a man's perception soon becomes his reality. 
Anyway, where could someone send my things without leading my enemies to 
me?¡¨ 
Buck dug into his bag and produced his laptop. ¡§I'm not sure how much battery life 
is left,¡¨ he said. He turned on the back-lit screen. 
¡§This would not happen to have the Old Testament in Hebrew?¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§No, but those programs are widely available.¡¨ 
¡§At least they are now,¡¨ Tsion said, a sob still in his throat. ¡§My most recent studies 
have led me to believe that our religious freedoms will soon become scarce at an 
alarming pace.¡¨ 
¡§What would you like to see, sir?¡¨ At first Buck thought Tsion had not heard his 
question. Then he wondered if Tsion had spoken and he himself had not heard the 
answer. The computer ground away, bringing up a menu of Old Testament books. 
Buck stole a glance at his friend. Clearly, he was trying to speak. The words would 
not come. 
¡§I sometimes find the Psalms comforting,¡¨ Buck said. Tsion nodded, now covering 
his mouth with his hand. The man's chest heaved and he could hold back the sobs 
no longer. He leaned over onto Buck and collapsed in tears. ¡§The joy of the Lord is 
my strength,¡¨ he moaned over and over. ¡§The joy of the Lord is my strength.¡¨ 
Joy, Buck thought. What a concept in this place, at this time. The name of the game 
now was survival. Certainly joy took on a different meaning than ever before in 
Buck's life. He used to equate joy with happiness. Clearly Tsion Ben-Judah was not 
implying that he was happy. He might never be happy again. This joy was a deep 
abiding peace, an assurance that God was sovereign. They didn't have to like what 
was happening. They merely had to trust that God knew what he was doing. 
That made it no easier. Buck knew well that things would get worse before they 
ever got better. If a man was not rock solid in his faith now, he never would be. 
Buck sat in that damp, moist, earthen hideout in the middle of nowhere, knowing 
with more certainty than ever that he had put his faith in the only begotten Son of 
the Father. With his bent and nearly broken brother sobbing in his lap, Buck felt as 
close to God as he had the day he trusted Christ. 
Tsion composed himself and reached for the computer. He fumbled with the keys 
for a minute before asking for help. ¡§Just bring up the Psalms,¡¨ he said. Buck did, 
and Tsion cursored through them, one hand on the computer mouse and the other 
covering his mouth as he wept. ¡§Ask the others to join us for prayer,¡¨ he whispered. 

A few minutes later, the six men knelt in a circle. Tsion spoke to them briefly in 
Hebrew, Michael quietly whispering the interpretation into Buck's ear. ¡§My friends 
and brothers in Christ, though I am deeply wounded, yet I must pray. I pray to the 
God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I praise you because you are the one and only 
true God, the God above all other gods. You sit high above the heavens. There is 
none other like you. In you there is no variation or shadow of turning.¡¨ 
With that, Tsion broke down again and asked that the others pray for him. 
Buck had never heard people praying together aloud in a foreign language. Hearing 
the fervency of these witness-evangelists made him fall prostrate. He felt the cold 
mud on the backs of his hands as he buried his face in his palms. He didn't know 
about Tsion but felt as if he were being borne along on clouds of peace. Suddenly 
Tsion's voice could be heard above the rest. Michael bent down and whispered in 
Buck's ear, ¡§If God is for us, who can be against us?¡¨ 
Buck did not know how long he lay on the floor. Eventually the prayers became 
groanings and what sounded like Hebrew versions of amens and hallelujahs. Buck 
rose to his knees and felt stiff and sore. Tsion looked at him, his face still wet but 
seemingly finished crying for now. ¡§I believe I can finally sleep,¡¨ the rabbi said. 
¡§Then you should. We'll not be going anywhere tonight. I'll make arrangements for 
after dark tomorrow.¡¨ 
¡§You should call your friend,¡¨ Michael said. 
¡§You realize what time it is?¡¨ Buck said. 
Michael looked at his watch, smiled, shook his head, and said simply, ¡§Oh.¡¨ 
¡§Alexandria?¡¨ Ken Ritz said by phone the next morning. ¡§Sure, I can get there 
easily enough. It's a big airport. When will you be along?¡¨ 
Buck, who had bathed and washed out a change of clothes in a tiny tributary off the 
Jordan, dried himself with a blanket. One of Tsion Ben-Judah's Hebrew-speaking 
guards was nearby. He had cooked breakfast and now appeared to roast Tsion's 
socks and underwear over the small fire. 
¡§We'll leave here tonight, as soon as the sky is black,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Then, however 
long it takes a forty-foot wood boat with two outboard motors and six adult men 
aboard to get to Alexandria¡X¡¨ 
Ritz was laughing. ¡§This is my first time over here, as I think I told you,¡¨ he said, 
¡§but one thing I'm pretty sure about: if you think you're coming from where you are 
to Alexandria without carrying that boat across dry land to the sea, you're kidding 
yourself.¡¨ 
At midday all six men were out of the dugout. They were confident no one had 
followed them to this remote location and that as long as they stayed out of sight 
from the air, they could stretch their legs and breathe a little. 
Michael was not as amused at Buck's naivete as Ken Ritz had been. He found little 

to smile about and nothing to laugh about these days. Michael leaned back against a 
tree. ¡§There are some small airports here and there in Israel,¡¨ he said. ¡§Why are you 
so determined to fly out of Egypt?¡¨ 
¡§Well, that dream¡XI don't know, this is all new to me. I'm trying to be practical, 
listen to the witnesses, follow the leadings of God. What am I supposed to do about 
that dream?¡¨ 
¡§I'm a newer believer than you, my friend,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§But I wouldn't argue 
with a dream that was so clear.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe we have some advantage in Egypt we would not have in Israel,¡¨ Buck 
suggested. 
¡§I can't imagine what,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§For you to legally get out of Israel and into 
Egypt, you still have to go through customs somewhere.¡¨ 
¡§How realistic is that, considering my guest?¡¨ 
¡§You mean your contraband cargo?¡¨ 
Now there had been an attempt at humor, but still Michael had not smiled when he 
said it. 
¡§I'm just wondering,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§how carefully customs officers and border guards 
will be looking for Dr. Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§You're wondering? I'm not wondering. We either avoid the border crossings or 
seek yet another supernatural act.¡¨ 
¡§I'm open to any suggestion,¡¨ Buck said. 
Rayford was on the phone with Amanda. She had filled him in on everything. ¡§I 
miss you more than ever right now,¡¨ he told her. 
¡§Having me come back here was sure the right idea,¡¨ she said. ¡§With Buck gone 
and Chloe still tender, I feel needed here.¡¨ 
¡§You're needed here too, sweetheart, but I'm counting the days.¡¨ 
Rayford told her about his conversation with Hattie and her plans to fly to the 
States. ¡§I trust you, Rayford. She sounds like she's hurting. We'll pray for her. What 
I wouldn't give to get that girl under some sound teaching.¡¨ 
Rayford agreed. ¡§If she could only stop through our area on her way back. Maybe 
when Bruce is going through some chapter on¡X¡¨ Rayford realized what he had 
said. 
¡§Oh, Ray¡X¡¨ 
¡§It's still too fresh, I guess,¡¨ he said. ¡§I just hope God provides some other Bible 
teacher for us. Well, it won't be another Bruce.¡¨ 
¡§No,¡¨ Amanda said, ¡§and it won't likely be soon enough to do Hattie any good, 

even if she does come here.¡¨ 
Late that afternoon, Buck took a call from Ken Ritz. ¡§You still want me to meet you 
in Alexandria?¡¨ 
¡§We're talking about it, Ken. I'll get back to you.¡¨ 
¡§Can you drive a stick shift, Buck?¡¨ Michael asked. 
¡§Sure.¡¨ 
¡§An ancient one?¡¨ 
¡§They're the most fun, aren't they?¡¨ 
¡§Not as ancient as this one,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§I've got an old school bus that smells of 
fish and paint. I use it for both professions. It's on its last legs, but if we could get 
you down to the southern mouth of the Jordan, you might be able to use it to find a 
way across the border into the Sinai. I'd stock you with petrol and water. That 
thing'll drink more water than it will gasoline any day.¡¨ 
¡§How big is this bus?¡¨ 
¡§Not big. Holds about twenty passengers.¡¨ 
¡§Four-wheel drive?¡¨ 
¡§No, sorry.¡¨ 
¡§An oil burner?¡¨ 
¡§Not as much as water, but yes, I'm afraid so.¡¨ 
¡§What's in the Sinai?¡¨ 
¡§You don't know?¡¨ 
¡§I know it's a desert.¡¨ 
¡§Then you know all you need to know. You'll be jealous of the bus engine and its 
water needs.¡¨ 
¡§What are you proposing?¡¨ 
¡§I sell you the bus, fair and square. You get all the paperwork. If you get stopped, 
the tags are traced to me, but I sold the bus.¡¨ 
¡§Keep talking¡X¡¨ 
¡§You hide Dr. Ben-Judah under the seats in the back. If you can get him across the 
border and into the Sinai, that bus should get you as far as Al Arish, less than fifty 
kilometers west of the Gaza Strip and right on the Mediterranean.¡¨ 
¡§And what, you'll meet us there with your wood boat and ferry us to America?¡¨ 
Finally, Buck had elicited a resigned smile from Michael. ¡§There is an airstrip there, 
and it's unlikely the Egyptians will care about a man wanted in Israel. If they even 
seem to care, they can be bought.¡¨ 
One of the other guards appeared to have understood the name of the seaport city, 

and Buck guessed he was asking in Hebrew for Michael to explain his strategy. He 
spoke earnestly to Michael, and Michael turned to Buck. ¡§My comrade is right 
about the risk. Israel might have already announced a huge ransom for the rabbi. 
Unless you could beat their price, the Egyptians might lean toward selling him 
back.¡¨ 
¡§How will I know the price?¡¨ 
¡§You'll just have to guess. Keep bidding until you can beat it.¡¨ 
¡§What would be your guess?¡¨ 
¡§Not less than a million dollars.¡¨ 
¡§A million dollars? Do you think every American has that kind of money?¡¨ 
¡§Don't you?¡¨ 
¡§No! And anyone who did wouldn't carry it in cash.¡¨ 
¡§Would you have half that much?¡¨ 
Buck shook his head and walked away. He slipped down into the hideout. Tsion 
followed. ¡§What's troubling you, my friend?¡¨ the rabbi said. 
¡§I need to get you out of here,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§And I have no idea how.¡¨ 
¡§Have you prayed?¡¨ 
¡§Constantly.¡¨ 
¡§The Lord will make a way somehow.¡¨ 
¡§It seems impossible right now, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Yahweh is the God of the impossible,¡¨ Tsion said. 
Night was falling. Buck felt all dressed up with nowhere to go. He borrowed a map 
from Michael and carefully studied it, looking north and south along the waterways 
that divided Israel from Jordan. If only there were a clear water route from the 
Jordan River or Lake Tiberius to the Mediterranean! Buck resolutely rerolled the 
map and handed it to Michael. ¡§You know,¡¨ he said, thinking, ¡§I have two sets of 
identification. I'm in the country under the name of Herb Katz, an American 
businessman. But I have my real ID as well.¡¨ 
¡§So?¡¨ 
¡§So, how 'bout we get me across the border as Herb Katz and the rabbi as Cameron 
Williams?¡¨ 
¡§You forget, Mr. Williams, that even we ancient, dusty countries are now 
computerized. If you came into Israel as Herb Katz, there is no record that Cameron 
Williams is here. If he's not here, how can he leave?¡¨ 
¡§All right then, let's say I leave as Cameron Williams and the rabbi leaves as Herb 
Katz. Though there is no record of my being here under my own name, I can show 
them my clearance level and my proximity to Carpathia and tell them not to ask any 

questions. That often works.¡¨ 
¡§There's an outside chance, but Tsion Ben-Judah does not speak like an American 
Jew, does he?¡¨ 
¡§No, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§And he does not look in the least like you or your picture.¡¨ 
Buck was frustrated. ¡§We are agreed that we have to get him out of here, aren't 
we?¡¨ 
¡§No question,¡¨ Michael said. 
¡§Then what do you propose? I am at an end.¡¨ 
Dr. Ben-Judah crawled to them, obviously not wanting even to stand in the low, 
earthen shelter. ¡§Michael,¡¨ he said, ¡§I cannot tell you how grateful I am for your 
sacrifice, for your protection. I appreciate also your sympathy and your prayers. 
This is very hard for me. In my flesh, I would rather not go on. Part of me very 
much wants to die and to be with my wife and children. Only the grace of God 
sustains me. Only he keeps me from wanting to avenge their deaths at any price. I 
foresee for myself long, lonely days and nights of dark despair. My faith is 
immovable and unshakable, and for that I can only thank the Lord. I feel called to 
continue to try to serve him, even in my grief. I do not know why he has allowed 
this, and I do not know how much longer he will give me to preach and teach the 
gospel of Christ. But something deep within me tells me that he would not have 
uniquely prepared me my whole life and then allowed me this second chance and 
used me to proclaim to the world that Jesus is Messiah unless he had more use for 
me. 
¡§I am wounded. I feel as if a huge hole has been left in my chest. I cannot imagine it 
ever being filled. I pray for relief from the pain. I pray for release from hatred and 
thoughts of vengeance. But mostly I pray for peace and rest so that I may somehow 
rebuild something from these remaining fragments of my life. I know my life is 
worthless in this country now. My message has angered all those except the 
believers, and now with the trumped-up charges against me, I must get out. If 
Nicolae Carpathia focuses on me, I will be a fugitive everywhere. But it makes no 
sense for me to stay here. I cannot hide out forever, and I must have some outlet for 
my ministry.¡¨ 
Michael stood between Tsion and Buck and put his hands on them. ¡§Tsion, my 
friend, you know that my compatriots and I are risking everything to protect you. 
We love you as our spiritual father, and we will die before we see you die. Of 
course we agree that you must go. Sometimes it seems that short of God sending an 
angel to whisk you away, no one as recognizable and as much a fugitive as you 
could slip past Israeli borders. In the midst of your pain and suffering, we dare not 
ask you for counsel. But if God has told you anything, we need to hear it and we 
need to hear it now. 

¡§The sky is getting black, and unless we want to wait another twenty-four hours, the 
time to move is now. What shall we do? Where shall we go? I am willing to lead 
you through customs at any border crossing with weapons, but we all know the folly 
of that.¡¨ 
Buck looked to Dr. Ben-Judah, who simply bowed his head and prayed aloud once 
more. ¡§O God, our help in ages past¡X¡¨ 
Buck immediately began to shiver and dropped to his knees. He sensed the Lord 
impressing upon him that the answer was before them. Echoing in his mind was a 
phrase he could only assume was of God: ¡§I have spoken. I have provided. Do not 
hesitate.¡¨ 
Buck felt humbled and emboldened, but still he didn't know what to do. If God had 
told him to go through Egypt, he was willing. Was that it? What had been provided? 
Michael and Tsion were now on their knees with Buck, huddled together, shoulders 
touching. None of them spoke. Buck felt the presence of the Spirit of God and 
began to weep. The other two seemed to be shivering as well. Suddenly Michael 
spoke, ¡§The glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard.¡¨ 
Words filled Buck's mind. Though he could barely pronounce them through his 
emotion, he blurted, ¡§You give me living water and I thirst no more.¡¨ What was 
that? Was God telling him he could travel into the Sinai desert and not die of thirst? 
Tsion Ben-Judah prostrated himself on the floor, sobbing and groaning. ¡§Oh God, 
oh God, oh God¡X¡¨ 
Michael lifted his face and said, ¡§Speak Lord, for your servants hear. Heed the 
words of the Lord. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. ...¡¨ 
Tsion again: ¡§The Lord of hosts has sworn, saying, 'Surely as I have thought, so 
shall it come to pass, and as I have purposed, so it shall stand.'¡¨ 
It was as if Buck had been steamrollered by the Spirit of God. Suddenly he knew 
what they must do. The pieces of the puzzle were all there. He, and they, had been 
waiting for some miraculous intervention. The fact was, if God wanted Tsion Ben- 
Judah out of Israel, he would make it out. If he did not, then he would not. God had 
told Buck in a dream to go another way, through Egypt. He had provided 
transportation through Michael. And now he had promised that his glory would be 
their rear guard. 
¡§Amen,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§and amen.¡¨ He rose and said, ¡§It's time, gentlemen. Let's 
move.¡¨ 
Dr. Ben-Judah looked surprised. ¡§Has the Lord spoken to you?¡¨ 
Buck shot him a double take. ¡§Did he not speak to you, Tsion?¡¨ 
¡§Yes! I just wanted to make sure we were in agreement.¡¨ 
¡§If I have a vote,¡¨ Michael said, ¡§we're unanimous. Let's get going.¡¨ 

Michael's compatriots pulled the boat into position as Buck slung in his bag and 
Tsion climbed aboard. As Michael fired up the engines and they started back down 
the Jordan, Buck handed Tsion the identification papers that carried Buck's own 
name and picture. Tsion looked surprised. ¡§I have felt no leading that I should use 
these,¡¨ he said. 
¡§And I have a definite leading that I should not have them on my person,¡¨ Buck 
said. ¡§I am in the country as Herb Katz, and I'll leave the country as Herb Katz. I'll 
ask you for the documents back when we get into the Sinai.¡¨ 
¡§This is exciting,¡¨ Tsion said, ¡§is it not? We are talking confidently about getting 
into the Sinai, and we have no idea how God is going to do it.¡¨ 
Michael left the boat in the hands of one of his friends and sat with Buck and Tsion. 
¡§Tsion has a little cash, a few credit cards, and his own papers. If he is found with 
those, he will be detained and likely put to death. Shall we keep those for him?¡¨ 
Tsion reached for his wallet and opened it in the moonlight. He removed the cash, 
folded it once, and stuck it in his pocket. The credit cards he began flipping one by 
one into the Jordan River. It was as close to amusement as Buck had noticed in the 
man since he had first seen him in the hideout. Almost everything went into the 
drink¡Xall forms of identification and the miscellaneous documentation he had 
gathered over the years. He pulled out a small photo section and gasped. He turned 
the pictures toward the moon and wept openly. ¡§Michael, I must ask you to 
someday ship these to me.¡¨ 
¡§I will do it.¡¨ 
Tsion flipped the old wallet into the water. ¡§And now,¡¨ Michael said, ¡§I believe you 
should return Mr. Williams's papers to him.¡¨ 
Tsion reached for them. ¡§Wait a minute,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Should we not try to get him 
some phony ID, if he's not going to use mine?¡¨ 
¡§Somehow,¡¨ Tsion said, ¡§what Michael says seems right. I am a man who has been 
stripped of everything, even his identity.¡¨ 
Buck took back his ID and began rummaging in his bag for a place to hide it. ¡§No 
good,¡¨ Michael said. ¡§There's nowhere on your person or in your bag they will not 
search and find an extra ID.¡¨ 
¡§Well,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§I can't toss mine into the Jordan.¡¨ Michael held out a hand. ¡§I 
will ship it to you along with Tsion's photographs,¡¨ he said. ¡§It's the safest.¡¨ 
Buck hesitated. ¡§You must not be found with that either,¡¨ he said. 
Michael took it. ¡§My life is destined to be short anyway, brother,¡¨ he said. ¡§I feel 
most honored and blessed to be one of the witnesses predicted in the Scriptures. But 
my assignment is to preach in Israel, where the real Messiah is hated. My days are 
limited whether I am caught with your papers or not.¡¨ 
Buck thanked him and shook his head. ¡§I still don't see how we're going to get 

Tsion across any border without papers, real or phony.¡¨ 
¡§We already prayed,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§I do not know how God is going to do this either. 
I just know that he is.¡¨ 
Buck's practicality and resourcefulness were at war with his faith. ¡§But don't we at 
least have to do our part?¡¨ 
¡§And what is our part, Cameron?¡¨ the rabbi said. ¡§It is when we are out of ideas and 
options and actions that we can only depend upon God.¡¨ 
Buck pressed his lips together and turned his face away. He wished he had the same 
faith Tsion had. In many ways, he knew he did. But still it didn't make sense to just 
plunge ahead, daring border guards to guess who Tsion was. 
¡§I'm sorry for calling now,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§But, Daddy, I've been trying to reach Buck 
on his cell phone.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't worry about Buck, honey. You know he finds ways to stay safe.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Dad! Buck finds ways to nearly get himself killed. I know he was at the King 
David under his phony name, and I'm tempted to call there, but he promised he 
would stay away from there tonight.¡¨ 
¡§Then I'd wait on that, Chloe. You know Buck rarely cares much about what time of 
the day it is. If the story or the caper takes him all night, then it takes him all night.¡¨ 
¡§You're a big help.¡¨ 
¡§I'm trying to be.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I just don't understand why he wouldn't have his cell phone with him all the 
time. You keep yours in your pocket, don't you?¡¨ 
¡§Usually. But maybe it's in his bag.¡¨ 
¡§So if his bag is in the hotel and he's out gallivanting, I'm out of luck?¡¨ 
¡§I guess so, hon.¡¨ 
¡§I wish he'd take his phone with him, even if he doesn't take his bag.¡¨ 
¡§Try not to worry, Chloe. Buck always turns up somewhere.¡¨ 
When Michael docked at the mouth of the Jordan, he and his fellow guards scanned 
the horizon and then casually walked to his tiny car and crammed themselves inside. 
Michael drove to his home, which had a tiny lean-to that served as a garage. That 
was too small for the bus that dominated the alley behind his humble place. Lights 
came on. A baby cried. Michael's wife padded out in a robe and embraced him 
desperately. She spoke urgently to him in Hebrew. Michael looked apologetically at 
Buck. ¡§I need to keep in touch more,¡¨ he said, shrugging. 
Buck patted his pocket, feeling for his phone. It was not there. He dug in his bag 

and found it. He should keep in touch with Chloe more too, but for right now it was 
more important that he get ahold of Ken Ritz. While Buck was on the phone he was 
aware of all the activity around him. Silently, Michael and his friends went to work. 
Oil and water were dumped into the engine and radiator of the rickety old school 
bus. One of the men filled the gas tank from cans stored at the side of the house. 
Michael's wife handed out a stack of blankets and a basket of clothes for Tsion. 
As Buck hung up from talking to Ritz, who had agreed to meet them at Al Arish in 
the Sinai, Buck passed Michael's wife on his way out to the bus. She hesitated 
shyly, glancing at him. He slowed, assuming she did not understand English but 
also wanting to express his gratitude. 
¡§English?¡¨ he tried. She closed her eyes briefly and shook her head. ¡§I, uh, just 
wanted to thank you,¡¨ he said. ¡§So, uh, thank you.¡¨ He spread his hands and then 
clasped them together under his chin, hoping she would know what he meant. She 
was a tiny, fragile-looking, dark-eyed thing. Sadness and terror were etched on her 
face and in her eyes. It was as if she knew she was on the right side, but that her 
time was limited. It couldn't be long before her husband was found out. He was not 
only a convert to the true Messiah, but he had also defended an enemy of the state. 
Buck knew Michael's wife must be wondering how long it would be before she and 
her children suffered the same fate that Tsion Ben-Judah's family suffered. And 
short of that, how long before she lost her husband to the cause, worthy though it 
was. 
It would have been against custom for her to have touched Buck, so he was startled 
when she approached. She stood just two feet from his face and stared into his eyes. 
She said something in Hebrew and he recognized only the last two words: ¡§Y'shua 
Hamashiach.¡¨ 
When Buck slipped away in the darkness and arrived at the bus, Tsion was already 
stretched out under the seats in the back. Food and extra water and oil and gasoline 
had already been stored. 
Michael approached, his three friends behind him. He embraced Buck and kissed 
him on both cheeks. ¡§Go with God,¡¨ he said, handing him the ownership 
documents. Buck reached to shake hands with the other three, who apparently knew 
he wouldn't understand them anyway, and said nothing. 
He stepped onto the bus and shut the door, settling into the creaky chair behind the 
wheel. Michael signaled him from outside to slide open his driver's-side window. 
¡§Feather it,¡¨ Michael said. 
¡§Feather it?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§The throttle.¡¨ 
Buck put the pedal down and released it, turning the key. The engine roared noisily 
to life. Michael put up both hands to urge him to be as quiet as possible. Buck 
slowly let out the clutch, and the old crate shuddered and jumped and lurched. Just 

to get out of the alleyway and onto the main thoroughfare, Buck felt as if he were 
riding the clutch. Shifting, clutching, and, yes, feathering the throttle, he was finally 
free of the tiny neighborhood and out onto the road. Now, if he could just follow 
Michael's instructions and directions and somehow get to the border, the rest would 
be up to God. He felt an unusual sense of freedom, simply piloting a vehicle¡X 
albeit one like this¡Xon his own. He was on a journey that would lead him 
somewhere. By dawn, he could be anywhere: detained, imprisoned, in the desert, in 
the air, or in heaven. 
CHAPTER TWELVE 
IT didn't take Buck long to learn what Michael meant by ¡§feathering¡¨ the throttle. 
Any time Buck clutched to shift, the engine nearly stalled. When he came to a 
complete stop, he had to keep his left foot on the clutch, his right heel on the brake, 
and feather the throttle with the toes of his right foot. 
Along with the title to the dilapidated rig, Michael had included a rough map. 
¡§There are four different places where you can cross over from Israel into Egypt by 
auto,¡¨ Michael had told him. The two most direct were at Rafah on the Gaza Strip. 
¡§But these have always been heavily patrolled. You might rather head south directly 
out of Jerusalem through Hebron to Beersheba. I would advise continuing southeast 
out of Beersheba, though that is slightly out of your way. About two-thirds of the 
way between Beersheba and Yeroham is a southern but mostly western cutoff that 
takes you through the northern edge of the Negev. You're less than fifty kilometers 
from the border there, and when you come within less than ten kilometers, you can 
head north and west or continue due west. I couldn't guess which border would be 
easier to get through. I would recommend the southern, because you can then 
continue to a northwest route that takes you directly into Al Arish. If you take the 
northern pass, you must go back up to the main road between Rafah and Al Arish, 
which is more heavily traveled and more carefully watched.¡¨ 
That had been all Buck needed to hear. He would take the southernmost of the four 
border crossings and pray he was not stopped until then. 
Tsion Ben-Judah stayed on the floor under the seats until Buck had rumbled far 
enough south of Jerusalem that they both felt safe. Tsion moved up and crouched 
next to Buck. ¡§Are you tired?¡¨ he asked. ¡§Would you like me to take over driving?¡¨ 
¡§You're joking.¡¨ 
¡§It may be many months before I am able to find humor in anything,¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§But you're not serious about sitting behind the wheel of this bus, are you? What 
would we do if we were stopped? Trade places?¡¨ 
¡§I was just offering.¡¨ 

¡§I appreciate it, but it's out of the question. I'm fine, well rested. Anyway, I'm scared 
to death. That will keep me alert.¡¨ 
Buck downshifted to navigate a curve, and Tsion swung forward from the 
momentum. He hung on to the metal pole next to the driver's seat, and he spun 
around and smacked into Buck, pushing him to the left. 
¡§I told you, Tsion, I'm awake. You need not continually try to rouse me.¡¨ 
He looked at Tsion to see if he had elicited a smile. It appeared Tsion was trying to 
be polite. He apologized profusely and slid into the seat behind Buck, his head low, 
his chin resting on his hands, which gripped the bar that separated the driver from 
the first seat. ¡§Tell me when I need to duck.¡¨ 
¡§By the time I know that, you'll likely already be seen.¡¨ 
¡§I do not think I can take riding long on the floorboards,¡¨ Ben-Judah said. ¡§Let us 
both just be on the lookout.¡¨ 
It was difficult for Buck to get the old bus to move faster than seventy kilometers 
per hour. He feared it would take all night to get to the border. Maybe that was OK. 
The darker and the later the better. As he chugged along, watching the gauges and 
trying not to do anything that might draw attention to them, he noticed in his 
rearview mirror that Tsion had slumped in the seat and was trying to rest on his 
side. Buck thought the rabbi had said something. ¡§I beg your pardon?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I am sorry, Cameron. I was praying.¡¨ Later Buck heard him singing. Later still, 
weeping. Well after midnight, Buck checked his map and noted that they were 
rolling through Haiheul, a small town just a tick north of Hebron. ¡§Will the tourists 
be out at this time of night in Hebron?¡¨ Buck asked. 
Tsion leaned forward. ¡§No. But still, it is a populated area. I will be careful. 
Cameron, there is something I would like to talk to you about.¡¨ 
¡§Anything.¡¨ 
¡§I want you to know that I am deeply grateful that you have sacrificed your time 
and risked your life to come for me.¡¨ 
¡§No friend would do less, Tsion. I've felt a deep bond with you since the day you 
first took me to the Wailing Wall. And then we had to flee together after your 
television broadcast.¡¨ 
¡§We have been through some incredible experiences, it is true.¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§That is 
why I knew if I could merely get Dr. Rosenzweig to point you in the direction of the 
witnesses, you would find me. I did not dare let on to him where I was. Even my 
driver knew only to take me to Michael and the other brothers in Jericho. My driver 
was so distraught at what happened to my family that he was in tears. We have been 
together for many years. Michael promised to keep him informed, but I would like 
to call him myself. Perhaps I can use your secure phone once we have passed the 
border.¡¨ 

Buck didn't know what to say. He had more confidence than Michael that Tsion 
could take yet more bad news, but why did he have to be the one to bear it? The 
intuitive rabbi seemed to immediately suspect Buck was hiding something. ¡§What?¡¨ 
he asked. ¡§Do you think it is too late to call him?¡¨ 
¡§It is very late,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§But if the situation were reversed, I would be overjoyed to hear from him at any 
time of the day or night.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure he felt¡Xfeels the same,¡¨ Buck said lamely. 
Buck peeked into the rearview mirror. Tsion stared at him, a look of realization 
coming over him. ¡§Maybe I should call him now,¡¨ he suggested. ¡§May I use your 
phone?¡¨ 
¡§Tsion, you are always welcome to whatever I have. You know that. I would not 
phone him now, no.¡¨ 
When Tsion responded, Buck knew that he knew. His voice was flat, full of the pain 
that would plague him the rest of his days. ¡§Cameron, his name was Jaime. He had 
been with me since I started teaching at the university. He was not an educated man; 
however, he was wise in the ways of the world. We talked much about my findings. 
He and my wife were the only ones besides my student assistants who knew what I 
was going to say on the television broadcast. He was close, Cameron. So close. But 
he is no longer with us, is he?¡¨ 
Buck thought about merely shaking his head, but he could not do that. He busied 
himself looking for road signs for Hebron, but the rabbi, of course, would not let it 
go. 
¡§Cameron, we are too close and have gone through too much for you to hold out on 
me now. Clearly you have been told the disposition of Jaime. You must understand 
that the toll the bad news has taken on me can be made neither worse by hearing 
more, nor better by hearing less. We believers in Christ, of all people, must never 
fear any truth, hard as it may be.¡¨ 
¡§Jaime is dead,¡¨ Buck said. 
Tsion hung his head. ¡§He heard me preach so many times. He knew the gospel. 
Sometimes I even pushed him. He was not offended. He knew I cared about him. I 
can only hope and pray that perhaps after he delivered me to Michael, he had time 
to join the family. Tell me how it happened.¡¨ 
¡§Car bomb.¡¨ 
¡§Instantaneous, then,¡¨ he said. ¡§Perhaps he never knew what hit him. Perhaps he did 
not suffer.¡¨ 
¡§I'm so sorry, Tsion. Michael didn't think you could take it.¡¨ 
¡§He underestimates me, but I appreciate his concern. I worry about everyone 
associated with me. Anyone who appears they might know anything of my 

whereabouts may suffer if they are not forthcoming. That includes so many. I will 
never forgive myself if they all pay the ultimate price for merely having known me. 
Frankly, I worry about Chaim Rosenzweig.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't worry about him just yet,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§He's still closely identified with 
Carpathia. Ironically, that's his protection for now.¡¨ 
Buck drove cautiously through Hebron, and he and Tsion rode in silence all the way 
to Beersheba. In the wee hours of the morning, about ten kilometers south of 
Beersheba, Buck noticed the heat gauge rising. The oil gauge still looked OK, but 
the last thing Buck wanted was to overheat. ¡§I'm gonna add some water to this 
radiator, Tsion,¡¨ he said. The rabbi seemed to be dozing. 
Buck pulled far off the road onto the gravel shoulder. He found a rag and climbed 
out. Once he got the hood propped up, he gingerly opened the radiator cap. It was 
steaming, but he was able to dump a couple of liters of water in before the thing 
boiled over. While he was working he noticed a Global Community peacekeeping 
force squad car slowly drive past. Buck tried to look casual and took a deep breath. 
He wiped his hands and dropped the rag into his water can, noticing the squad car 
had pulled over about a hundred feet in front of the bus and was slowly backing up. 
Trying not to look suspicious, Buck tossed the water can into the bus and came back 
around to shut the hood. Before he shut it, the squad car backed onto the road and 
turned to face him on the shoulder. With the headlights shining in his eyes, Buck 
heard the Global Community peacekeeper say something to him in Hebrew over his 
loudspeaker. 
Buck held out both arms and hollered, ¡§English!¡¨ 
In a heavy accent, the peacekeeper said, ¡§Please to remain outside your vehicle.¡¨ 
Buck turned to lower the hood, but the officer called out to him again, ¡§Please to 
stand where you are.¡¨ 
Buck shrugged and stood awkwardly, hands at his sides. The officer spoke into his 
radio. Finally the young man emerged. ¡§Happy evening to you, sir,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Thank you,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Just had some overheating problems is all.¡¨ 
The officer was dark and slender, wearing the gaudy uniform of the Global 
Community, Buck wished he'd had his own passport and papers. Nothing sent a GC 
operative running more quickly than Buck's 2-A clearance. 
¡§Are you alone?¡¨ the officer asked. 
¡§Name's Herb Katz,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I asked you are you alone?¡¨ 
¡§I'm an American businessman, here on pleasure.¡¨ 
¡§Your papers, please.¡¨ 
Buck pulled out his phony passport and wallet. The young man studied them with a 

flashlight and pointed the light into Buck's face. Buck didn't think that was 
necessary with the headlights already blinding him, but he said nothing. 
¡§Mr. Katz, can you tell me where you got this vehicle?¡¨ 
¡§I bought it tonight. Just before midnight.¡¨ 
¡§And you bought it from?¡¨ 
¡§I have the papers. I can't pronounce his name. I'm an American.¡¨ 
¡§Sir, the plates on this vehicle trace to a resident of Jericho.¡¨ 
Buck, still playing dumb, said, ¡§Well, there you go! That's where I bought it, in 
Jericho.¡¨ 
¡§And you say you purchased it before midnight?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Are you aware of a manhunt in this country?¡¨ 
¡§Tell me,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§It happens that the owner of this vehicle was detained, just over an hour ago, in 
connection with aiding and abetting a murder suspect.¡¨ 
¡§You don't say?¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I just took a boat ride with this man. He runs a tour 
boat. Hold him I needed a vehicle to just get me from Israel to Egypt so I could fly 
home to America. He told me he had just the rig, and this is it.¡¨ 
The officer moved toward the bus. ¡§I'm going to need to see those papers,¡¨ he said. 
¡§I'll get them for you,¡¨ Buck said, stepping in front of him and jumping onto the 
bus. He grabbed the papers and waved them as he came down the steps. The officer 
backed away and into the light of his own headlamps again. 
¡§The papers seem to be in order, but it's just too coincidental that you purchased this 
vehicle only hours before this man was arrested.¡¨ 
¡§I don't see what buying a bus has to do with what some guy is messed up with,¡¨ 
Buck said. 
¡§We have reason to believe that the man who sold you this vehicle has been 
harboring a murderer. He was found with the suspect's papers and those of an 
American. It will not be long before we persuade him to tell us where he has 
harbored the suspect.¡¨ The officer looked at his own notes. ¡§Are you familiar with a 
Cameron Williams, an American?¡¨ 
¡§Doesn't sound like the name of any friend I've got. I'm from Chicago.¡¨ 
¡§And you are leaving tonight, from Egypt?¡¨ 
¡§That's right.¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ Buck repeated. 

¡§Why do you need to leave through Egypt? Why do you not fly out of Jerusalem or 
Tel Aviv?¡¨ 
¡§No flights tonight. I want to get home. I've chartered a flight.¡¨ 
¡§And why didn't you simply hire a ride?¡¨ 
¡§If you look closely at that title and bill of sale, you'll see I paid less for the bus than 
I would have for a ride.¡¨ 
¡§One moment, sir.¡¨ The officer went back to his squad car and sat talking on the 
radio for several minutes. 
Buck prayed he would think of something that would keep the peacekeeper from 
searching the bus. 
Soon the young man emerged again. ¡§You claim to never have heard of Cameron 
Williams. We are now determining if the man who sold you this vehicle will 
implicate you in his scheme.¡¨ 
¡§His scheme?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§It will not take us long to find out where he has hidden our suspect. It will be in his 
best interest to tell us the whole truth. He has a wife and children, after all.¡¨ 
For the first time in his life, Buck was tempted to kill a man. He knew the officer 
was just a pawn in a cosmic game, the war between good and evil. But he 
represented evil. Would Buck have been justified, the way Michael had felt 
justified, in killing those who might kill Tsion? The officer heard squawking on his 
radio and hurried back to the squad car. He returned in a moment. 
¡§Our techniques have worked,¡¨ he said. ¡§We have extracted the location of the 
hiding place, somewhere between Jericho and Lake Tiberius off the Jordan River. 
But under the threat of torture and even death, he swears you were merely a tour 
guest to whom he sold the vehicle.¡¨ 
Buck sighed. Others might consider that mutual ruse a coincidence. To him it was 
as much a miracle as what he had seen at the Wailing Wall. 
¡§Just for safety's sake, however,¡¨ the officer said, ¡§I have been asked to search your 
vehicle for any evidence of the fugitive.¡¨ 
¡§But you said¡X¡¨ 
¡§Have no fear, sir. You are in the clear. Perhaps you were used to transport some 
evidence out of the country without your knowing it. We simply need to check the 
vehicle for anything that might lead us to the suspect. I will thank you to stand aside 
and remain here while I search your vehicle.¡¨ 
¡§You don't need a warrant or my permission or anything?¡¨ 
The officer turned menacingly toward Buck. ¡§Sir, you have been pleasant and 
cooperative. But do not make the mistake of thinking that you are talking with local 
law enforcement here. You can see from my car and my uniform that I represent the 

peacekeeping forces of the Global Community. We are restricted by no conventions 
or rules. I could confiscate this vehicle without so much as your signature. Now 
wait here.¡¨ 
Wild thoughts ran through Buck's mind. He considered trying to disarm the officer 
and racing away in the man's squad car with Tsion. It was ludicrous, he knew, but 
he hated inaction. Would Tsion jump the officer? Kill him? Buck heard the officer's 
footsteps move slowly to the back of the bus and then to the front again. The 
flashlight beam danced around inside the bus. 
The officer rejoined him. ¡§What did you think you were going to do? Did you think 
you were going to get away with this? Did you think I was going to allow you to 
drive this vehicle across the border into Egypt and to simply dump it? Were you 
going to leave it at an airport somewhere for local authorities to clean up?¡¨ 
Buck was dumbfounded. This was what the officer was worried about now? Had he 
not seen Tsion Ben-Judah on the bus? Had God supernaturally blinded him? ¡§Uh, I, 
uh, actually had thought of that. Yes, I understood that many of the locals who try to 
pick up extra money helping with baggage and the like, that they, uh, would be 
thrilled to have such a vehicle.¡¨ 
¡§You must be a very wealthy American, sir. I realize this bus is not worth much, but 
it sure is a big tip for a baggage handler, wouldn't you say?¡¨ 
¡§Call me frivolous,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Thank you for your cooperation, Mr. Katz.¡¨ 
¡§Well, you're welcome. And thank you.¡¨ The officer reentered his vehicle and 
pulled across the road, heading north back into Beersheba. Buck, his knees like jelly 
and his fingers twitching, slammed the hood shut and boarded the bus. 
¡§How in the world did you pull that off, Tsion? Tsion! It's me! You can come out 
now, wherever you are. No way you fit up in the luggage rack. Tsion?¡¨ 
Buck stood on a seat and scanned the racks. Nothing. He lay on the floor and looked 
beneath the seats. Nothing but his own bag, the pile of clothes, the foodstuffs, and 
the water, oil, and gasoline. If Buck hadn't known better, he'd have thought Tsion 
Ben-Judah had been raptured after all. 
Now what? No traffic had passed while Buck was engaged with the officer. Did he 
dare shout into the darkness? When had Tsion left the bus? Rather than make a 
scene for anyone who might happen along, Buck merely climbed aboard, restarted 
the engine, and drove down the shoulder of the road. After about two hundred 
yards, he tried to pop a U-turn and found that he had to accomplish it with a threepoint 
turn instead. He drove down the other shoulder, clouds of dust rising behind 
him, illuminated by the red taillights. C'mon, Tsion! Tell me you didn't start off 
walking all the way toward Egypt! 
Buck thought of honking the horn. Instead he drove another couple of hundred 
yards north and turned around yet again. This time his lights picked up the small, 

furtive wave of his friend from a grove of trees in the distance. He slowly rolled the 
bus to the area and opened the door. Tsion Ben-Judah leaped aboard and lay on the 
floor next to Buck. He was panting. 
¡§If you have ever wondered what the saying meant about the Lord working in 
mysterious ways,¡¨ Tsion said, ¡§there was your answer.¡¨ 
¡§What in the world happened?¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I thought we'd had it for good.¡¨ 
¡§So did I!¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§I was dozing and barely understood that you were going to 
do something with the engine. When you raised the hood, I realized I needed to 
relieve myself. You were pouring the water when I got off. I was only about fifteen 
feet off the road when the squad car rolled by. I did not know what you would do, 
but I knew I could not be on that bus. I just started walking this way, praying you 
would somehow talk your way out of it.¡¨ 
¡§Did you hear our conversation, then?¡¨ 
¡§No. What all was said?¡¨ 
¡§You won't believe it, Tsion.¡¨ And Buck told him the whole story as they rolled on 
toward the border. 
As the old bus putted along in the darkness, Tsion apparently grew brave. He sat in 
the front seat, directly behind Buck. He was not hiding, not leaned over. He bent 
forward and spoke earnestly into Buck's ear. ¡§Cameron,¡¨ he said, his voice quavery 
and weak, ¡§I am going nearly mad wondering who will take care of the disposition 
of my family.¡¨ 
Buck hesitated. ¡§I don't quite know how to ask you this, sir, but what generally 
happens in cases like this? When pseudo-official factions do something like this, I 
mean.¡¨ 
¡§That is what bothers me. You never see what happens to the bodies. Do they bury 
them? Do they burn them? I do not know. But the mere imagining of it is deeply 
troubling to me.¡¨ 
¡§Tsion, far be it from me to advise you spiritually. You are a man of the Word and 
of deep faith.¡¨ 
Tsion interrupted him. ¡§Do not be foolish, my young friend. Just because you are 
not a scholar does not mean you are any less mature in the faith. You were a 
believer before I was.¡¨ 
¡§Still, sir, I am at the end of my insight in knowing how to deal with such personal 
tragedy. I could not have remotely handled what you're going through in any way 
near how you're handling it.¡¨ 
¡§Do not forget, Cameron, that I am mostly running on emotion. No doubt my 
system is in shock. My worst days are yet to come.¡¨ 
¡§Frankly, Tsion, I have feared the same thing for you. At least you have been able 
to cry. Tears can be a great release. I fear for those who go through such trauma and 

find it impossible to shed tears.¡¨ 
Tsion sat back and said nothing. Buck prayed silently for him. Finally, Tsion leaned 
forward again. ¡§I come from a heritage of tears,¡¨ he said. ¡§Centuries of tears.¡¨ 
¡§I wish I could do something tangible for you, Tsion,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Tangible? What is more tangible than this? You have been of such encouragement 
to me I cannot tell you. Who else would do this for a man he hardly knows?¡¨ 
¡§It seems I've known you forever.¡¨ 
¡§And God has given you resources that even my closest friends do not have.¡¨ Tsion 
seemed deep in thought. Finally he said, ¡§Cameron, there is something you can do 
that would be of some comfort to me.¡¨ 
¡§Anything.¡¨ 
¡§Tell me about your little group of believers there in America. What did you call 
them? The core group, I mean?¡¨ 
¡§The Tribulation Force.¡¨ 
¡§Yes! I love hearing such stories. Wherever I have gone in the world to preach and 
to help be an instrument in converting the 144,000 Jews who are becoming the 
witnesses foretold in the Scriptures, I have heard wonderful tales of secret meetings 
and the like. Tell me all about your Tribulation Force.¡¨ 
Buck began at the beginning. He started on the plane when he was merely a 
passenger and Hattie Durham was a flight attendant, Rayford Steele the pilot. As he 
talked, he kept glancing in the rearview mirror to see if Tsion was really listening or 
merely tolerating a long story. Buck had always been amazed that his own mind 
could be on two tracks at once. He could be telling a story and thinking of another at 
the same time. All the while he told Tsion of hearing Rayford spill his own story of 
a spiritual quest, of meeting Chloe and traveling back from New York to Chicago 
with her on the very day she prayed with her father to receive Christ, of meeting and 
being counseled by Bruce Barnes and mentored and tutored by him whenever 
possible, Buck was trying to hold at bay his fear of facing the border crossing. At 
the same time he was wondering whether he should complete his story. Tsion did 
not know yet of the death of Bruce Barnes, a man he had never met but with whom 
he had corresponded and with whom he hoped to minister one day. 
Buck brought the story up to just a few days before, when the Tribulation Force had 
reunited in Chicago, just before war erupted. Buck sensed Tsion growing more 
nervous as they neared the border. He seemed to move more, to interrupt more, to 
talk more quickly, and to ask more questions. 
¡§And Pastor Bruce had been on the church staff for many years without having truly 
been a believer?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. That was a sad, difficult story even for him to tell.¡¨ 
¡§I cannot wait to meet him,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§I will grieve for my family, and I will 

miss my mother country as if she truly were my parent. But to get to pray with your 
Tribulation Force and open the Scriptures with them, this will be balm for my pain, 
salve for my wound.¡¨ 
Buck took a deep breath. He wanted to stop talking, to concentrate on the road, on 
the border ahead. Yet he could never be less than fully honest with Tsion. ¡§You will 
meet Bruce Barnes at the Glorious Appearing,¡¨ he said. 
Buck peeked in the mirror. Clearly Tsion had heard and understood. He lowered his 
head. ¡§When did it happen?¡¨ he asked. 
Buck told him. 
¡§And how did he die?¡¨ 
Buck told him what he knew. ¡§We're probably never going to know whether it was 
the virus he picked up overseas or the impact of the blast on the hospital. Rayford 
said there seemed to be no marks on his body.¡¨ 
¡§Perhaps the Lord spared him from the bombing by taking him first.¡¨ 
Buck considered that God was providing Rabbi Ben-Judah to be the new scriptural 
and spiritual mentor for the Tribulation Force, but he didn't dare suggest that. No 
way an international fugitive could become the new pastor of New Hope Village 
Church, especially if Nicolae Carpathia had his sights trained on him. Anyway, 
Tsion might consider Buck's idea a crazy one. Was there not some easier way God 
could have put Tsion in a position to help the Tribulation Force without costing him 
his wife and children? 
In spite of his nervousness, in spite of his fear, in spite of the distraction of driving 
in unknown, dangerous territory with a less-than-desirable conveyance, suddenly 
Buck saw it all laid out before him. He wouldn't call it a vision. It was simply a 
realization of the possibilities. Suddenly he knew the first use for the secret shelter 
beneath the church. He envisioned Tsion there, supplied with everything he needed, 
including one of those great computers Donny Moore was dolling up. 
Buck grew excited just thinking about it. He would provide for the rabbi every 
software package he needed. He would have the Bible in every version, every 
language, with all the notes and commentaries and dictionaries and encyclopedias 
he needed. Tsion would never again have to worry about losing his books. They 
would all be in one place, on one massive hard drive. 
And what might Donny come up with that would allow Tsion to broadcast 
surreptitiously on the Internet? Was it possible his ministry could be more dramatic 
and wider than ever? Could he do his teaching and preaching and Bible studies on 
the Net to the millions of computers and televisions all over the world? Surely there 
must be some technology that would allow him to do this without being detected. If 
cell phone manufacturers could provide chips allowing a caller to jump between 
three-dozen different frequencies in seconds to avoid static and interception, surely 
there was a way to scramble a message over the Net and keep the sender from being 

identified. 
In the distance Buck saw GC squad cars and trucks near two one-story buildings 
that straddled the road. The buildings would be the exit from Israel. Up the road 
would be the entrance into the Sinai. Buck downshifted and checked his gauges. 
The heat was starting to rise only slightly, and he was convinced if he drove slowly 
and was able to shut off the vehicle for a while at the border crossing, that would 
take care of it. He was doing fine on fuel, and the oil gauge looked OK. 
He was irritated. His mind was engaged with the possibilities of a ministry for Tsion 
Ben-Judah that would outstrip anything he had ever been able to accomplish before, 
but it also reminded him that he too could, in essence, broadcast over the Internet 
the truth about what was going on in the world. For how long could he pretend to be 
a cooperative, if not loyal employee, of Nicolae Carpathia? His journalism was no 
longer objective. It was propaganda. It was what George Orwell would have called 
¡§newspeak¡¨ in his famous novel 1984. 
Buck didn't want to face a border crossing. He wanted to sit with a yellow pad and 
noodle his ideas. He wanted to excite the rabbi over the possibilities. But he could 
not. Apparently his rattletrap and its vulnerable personal cargo would have the full 
attention of the border guards. Whatever vehicles had preceded them were long 
gone, and none appeared in the rearview mirror. 
Tsion lay on the floor beneath the seats. Buck pulled up to two uniformed and 
helmeted guards at a lowered crossbar. The one on the driver's side of the bus 
signaled that he should slide open the window and then spoke to him in Hebrew. 
¡§English,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Passport, visa, identification papers, vehicle registration, any goods to declare, and 
anything on board you want us to know about before we search should be passed 
through the window or told to us before we raise the gate.¡¨ 
Buck stood and retrieved from the front seat all the papers related to the vehicle. He 
added his phony passport, visa, and identification. He slipped back behind the wheel 
and passed everything out to the guard. ¡§I am also carrying foodstuffs, gasoline, oil, 
and water.¡¨ 
¡§Anything else?¡¨ 
¡§Anything else?¡¨ Buck repeated. 
¡§Anything else we need to see, sir! You will be interrogated inside, and your vehicle 
will be searched over there.¡¨ The guard pointed just beyond the building on the 
right side of the road. 
¡§Yes, I have some clothing and some blankets.¡¨ 
¡§Is that all?¡¨ 
¡§Those are the only other things I am carrying.¡¨ 
¡§Very good, sir. When the bar is raised, please pull your vehicle to the right and 

meet me in the building on the left.¡¨ 
Buck slowly drove under the angled crossbar, keeping the bus in first gear, the 
noisiest. Tsion reached past Buck's chair and grabbed his ankle. Buck took it as 
encouragement, as thanks, and, if necessary, farewell. ¡§Tsion,¡¨ he whispered, ¡§your 
only hope is to stay as far in the back as possible. Can you scoot all the way to the 
back?¡¨ 
¡§I will try.¡¨ 
¡§Tsion, Michael's wife said something to me when I left. I didn't understand it. It 
was in Hebrew. The last two words were something like Y'shua Hama-some-thing.¡¨ 
¡§Y'shua Hamashiach means 'Jesus the Messiah,'¡¨ Tsion said, his voice quavery. 
¡§She was wishing you the blessing of God on your trip, in the name of Y'shua 
Hamashiach.¡¨ 
¡§The same to you, my brother,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Cameron, my friend, I will see you soon. If not in this life, then in the everlasting 
kingdom.¡¨ 
The guards were approaching, obviously wondering what was keeping Buck. He 
shut off the engine and opened the door, just as a young guard approached. Buck 
grabbed a water can and shouldered his way past the guard. ¡§Been having a little 
trouble with the radiator,¡¨ he said. ¡§You know anything about radiators?¡¨ 
Distracted, the guard raised his eyebrows and followed Buck to the front of the bus. 
He raised the hood and they added water. The older guard, the one who had talked 
to him at the gate, said ¡§Come on, let's go, let's go!¡¨ 
¡§Be right with you,¡¨ Buck said, aware of every nerve in his body. He made a huge 
noise, slamming the hood. The younger guard moved toward the door, but Buck 
passed him, excused himself, put one foot on the steps, and tossed the water can 
into the bus. He thought about ¡§helping¡¨ the guard search the bus. He could stand 
with him and point out the blankets and cans of gas, oil, and water. But he had 
already come dangerously close, he feared, to making them suspicious. He came 
back off the bus and into the face of the young guard. ¡§Thanks so much for your 
help. I don't know much about engines, really. Business is my game. America, you 
know.¡¨ 
The young guard looked him in the eyes and nodded. Buck prayed he would merely 
follow him into the building on the other side of the border crossing. The older 
guard was waiting, staring at him, now waving for him to come over. Buck had no 
choice now. He left Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah, the most recognizable and notorious 
fugitive in Israel, in the hands of border guards. 
Buck hurried into the processing building. He was as distracted as he'd ever been, 
but he couldn't let it show. He wanted to turn and see if Tsion was dragged off the 
bus. No way he could escape on foot as he had on the road not long before. There 
was nowhere to go here, nowhere to hide. Barbed wire fences lined each side. Once 

you got in the gate, you had to go one way or the other. There was no going around. 
The original guard had Buck's papers spread out before him. ¡§You entered Israel 
through what entry point?¡¨ 
¡§Tel Aviv,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§It should all be there¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, it is. Just checking. Your papers seem to be in order, Mr. Katz,¡¨ he added, 
stamping Buck's passport and visa. ¡§And you are representing ... ?¡¨ 
¡§International Harvesters,¡¨ Buck said, making it plural because he meant it. 
¡§And you're leaving the area when?¡¨ 
¡§Tonight. If my pilot meets up with me at Al Arish.¡¨ 
¡§And how will you dispose of the vehicle?¡¨ 
¡§I was hoping to sell it cheap to someone at the airport.¡¨ 
¡§Depending upon how cheap, that should be no problem.¡¨ 
Buck seemed frozen into place. The guard looked over his shoulder and out across 
the road. What was he looking at? Buck could only imagine Tsion detained, 
handcuffed, and led across the road. What a fool he had been to not try to find some 
secret compartment for Tsion. This was madness. Had he driven a man to his death? 
Buck couldn't stand the thought of losing yet another member of his new family in 
Christ. 
The guard was on the computer. ¡§This shows you were detained near Beersheba 
earlier this morning?¡¨ 
¡§Detained is overstating it a bit. I was adding water to the radiator and was 
questioned briefly by a GC peacekeeping officer.¡¨ 
¡§Did he tell you the previous owner of your vehicle has been arrested in connection 
with the escape of Tsion Ben-Judah?¡§ 
¡¨He did.¡¨ 
¡§You might be interested in this, then.¡¨ The guard turned and pointed a remote 
control device at a television up in the corner. The Global Community Network 
News was reporting that a Michael Shorosh had been arrested in connection with 
the harboring of a fugitive from justice. ¡§Global Community spokesmen say that 
Ben-Judah, formerly a respected scholar and clergyman, apparently became a 
radical fanatic fundamentalist, and point to this sermon he delivered just a week ago 
as evidence that he overreacted to a New Testament passage and was later seen by 
several neighbors slaughtering his own family.¡¨ 
Buck watched in horror as the news ran a tape of Tsion speaking at a huge rally in a 
filled stadium in Larnaca, on the island of Cyprus. ¡§You'll note,¡¨ the newsman said, 
as the tape was stopped, ¡§the man on the platform behind Dr. Ben-Judah has been 
identified as Michael Shorosh. In a raid on his Jericho home shortly after midnight 
tonight, peacekeeping forces found personal photos of Ben-Judah's family and 

identification papers from both Ben-Judah and an American journalist, Cameron 
Williams. Williams's connection to the case has not been determined.¡¨ 
Buck prayed they would not show his face on television. He was startled to see the 
guard look over his shoulder to the door. Buck whirled to see the young guard come 
in, staring at him. The young man let the door close behind him and leaned back 
against it, his arms folded over his chest. He watched the news report with them. 
The tape showed Ben-Judah reading from Matthew. Buck had heard Tsion preach 
this message before. The verses, of course, had been taken out of context. ¡§Whoever 
denies Me before men, him I will also deny before My Father who is in heaven. 
¡§Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace but 
a sword. For I have come to 'set a man against his father, a daughter against her 
mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law'; and 'a man's enemies will 
be those of his own household.' He who loves father or mother more than Me is not 
worthy of Me. And he who loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of 
Me. And he who does not take his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me.¡¨ 
The news reporter said solemnly, ¡§This just a few days before the rabbi murdered 
his own wife and children in broad daylight.¡¨ 
¡§That's something, isn't it?¡¨ the older guard said. 
¡§That's something all right,¡¨ Buck said, fearing his voice betrayed him. 
The guard at the desk was stacking Buck's papers. He looked past Buck to the 
young guard. ¡§Everything all right with the vehicle, Anis?¡¨ 
Buck had to think quickly. Which would look more suspicious? Not turning to look 
at the young man, or turning to look at him? He turned to look. Still standing before 
the closed door, arms over his chest, the rigid young man nodded once. ¡§All is in 
order. Blankets and supplies. ¡¨ 
Buck had been holding his breath. The man at the desk slid his papers across. ¡§Safe 
journey,¡¨ he said. 
Buck nearly wept as he exhaled. ¡§Thank you,¡¨ he said. 
He turned toward the door, but the older guard was not finished. ¡§Thank you for 
visiting Israel,¡¨ he added. Buck wanted to scream. He turned around and nodded. 
¡§Yeah, uh, yes. You're welcome.¡¨ 
He had to will himself to walk. Anis did not move as Buck approached the door. He 
came face-to-face with the young man and stopped. He sensed the older guard 
Watching. 
¡§Excuse me,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§My name is Anis,¡¨ the man said. 
¡§Yes, Anis. Thank you. Excuse me, please.¡¨ Finally Anis stepped aside and Buck 
shakily left. His hands trembled as he folded his papers and stuffed them into his 
pocket. He boarded the rickety old bus and fired it up. If Tsion had found 

somewhere to hide, how would Buck find him now? He executed the fragile dance 
between clutch and accelerator and got the rig moving. Finally up to speed, he 
shifted into third, and the engine smoothed out a bit. He called out, ¡§If you're still on 
board, my friend, stay right where you are until the lights of that border crossing 
disappear. Then I want to know everything.¡¨ 
CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
RAYFORD was tired of being awakened by the phone. However, few people in 
New Babylon outside of Carpathia and Fortunato ever called him. And they usually 
had the sense not to disturb him in the middle of the night. So, he decided, the 
ringing phone was either good news or bad news. One chance out of two, in this day 
and age, wasn't bad. 
He picked up the phone. ¡§Steele,¡¨ he said. 
It was Amanda. ¡§Oh, Rayford, I know it's the middle of the night there, and I'm 
sorry to wake you. It's just that we've had a little excitement here, and we want to 
know if you know anything.¡¨ 
¡§Know anything about what?¡¨ 
¡§Well, Chloe and I were just going over all these pages from Bruce's computer 
printout. We told you about that?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah.¡¨ 
¡§We got the strangest call from Loretta at the church. She said she was just working 
there alone, taking a few phone calls. She said she just had an overwhelming urge to 
pray for Buck.¡¨ 
¡§For Buck?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. She said she was so overcome with the emotion of it that she quickly stood up 
from her chair. She said she thought that made her lightheaded, but something made 
her fall to her knees. Once she was kneeling, she realized she wasn't dizzy but was 
just praying earnestly for Buck.¡¨ 
¡§All I know, hon, is that Buck is in Israel. I think he's trying to find Tsion Ben- 
Judah, and you know what's happened to his family.¡¨ 
¡§We know,¡¨ Amanda said. ¡§It's just that Buck has a way of getting himself into 
trouble.¡¨ 
¡§He also has a way of getting himself out of trouble,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Then what do you make of this premonition, or whatever it was, of Loretta's?¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't call it a premonition. We all could use prayer these days, couldn't we?¡¨ 
Amanda sounded annoyed. ¡§Rayford, this was no fluke. You know Loretta is as 

levelheaded as they come. She was so upset she shut the office and came home.¡¨ 
¡§You mean before nine o'clock at night? What has she become, a slacker?¡¨ 
¡§Come on, Ray. She didn't go in until about noon today. You know she often stays 
till nine. People call at all hours.¡¨ 
¡§I know. I'm sorry.¡¨ 
¡§She wants to talk to you.¡¨ 
¡§To me?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. Will you talk to her?¡¨ 
¡§Sure, put her on.¡¨ Rayford had no idea what to say to her. Bruce would have had 
an answer for something like this. 
Loretta indeed sounded shaken. ¡§Captain Steele, I'm so sorry 'bout troubling you at 
this time of the night. What is it, goin' on like three o'clock over there?¡¨ 
¡§Yes ma'am, but it's all right.¡¨ 
¡§No, it's not all right. There's no reason to raise you out of a sound sleep. But sir, 
God told me to pray for that boy, I just know it.¡¨ 
¡§Then I'm glad you did.¡¨ 
¡§Do you think I'm crazy?¡¨ 
¡§I've always thought you were crazy, Loretta. That's why we love you so much.¡¨ 
¡§I know you're sporting with me, Captain Steele, but seriously, have I lost my 
marbles?¡¨ 
¡§No ma'am. God seems to be working in much more direct and dramatic ways all 
the time. If you were led to pray for Buck right then, you remember to ask him what 
was happening.¡¨ 
¡§That's just the thing, Mr. Steele. I had this overwhelming sense that Buck was in 
deep trouble. I just hope he makes it out of there alive. We're all hoping he can be 
back here in time for the Sunday service. You'll be here, won't you?¡¨ 
¡§The Lord willing,¡¨ Rayford said, stunned to hear from his own lips a phrase he had 
always considered silly when Irene's old friends had used it. 
¡§We want everybody together Sunday,¡¨ Loretta said. 
¡§It's my highest priority, ma'am. And Loretta, would you do me a favor?¡¨ 
¡§After gettin' you up in the middle of the night? You name it.¡¨ 
¡§If the Lord prompts you to pray for me, would you do it with all your might?¡¨ 
¡§'Course I will. You know that. I hope you're not just bein' funny now.¡¨ 
¡§I've never been more serious.¡¨ 

When the lights of the border crossing disappeared behind him, Buck pulled the bus 
off the road, shifted into neutral, set the brake, turned sideways in his seat, and 
sighed heavily. He could barely produce volume in his voice. ¡§Tsion, are you on 
this bus? Come out now, wherever you are.¡¨ 
From the back of the bus came an emotion-filled voice. ¡§I am here, Cameron. Praise 
the Lord God Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth.¡¨ 
The rabbi crawled out from under the seats. Buck met him in the aisle and they 
embraced. ¡§Talk to me,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I told you the Lord would make a way somehow,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§I don't know if the 
young Anis was an angel or a man, but he was sent from God.¡¨ 
¡§Anis?¡¨ 
¡§Anis. He walked up and down the aisle of the bus, shining his flashlight here and 
there. Then he knelt and shined it under the seats. I looked right into the beam. I was 
praying that God would blind his eyes. But God did not blind him. He came back to 
where I was and dropped to his elbows and knees. He kept the flashlight in my face 
with one hand and reached with the other to grab me by the shirt. He pulled me 
close to him. I thought my heart would burst. I imagined myself dragged into the 
building, a trophy for a young officer. 
¡§He whispered hoarsely to me through clenched teeth in Hebrew, 'You had better be 
who I think you are, or you are a dead man.' What could I do? There was no more 
hiding. No more future in pretending I wasn't here. I said to him, 'Young man, my 
name is Tsion Ben-Judah.' 
¡§Still holding my shirt in his fist and with his flashlight blinding me, he said, 'Rabbi 
Ben-Judah, my name is Anis. Pray as you have never prayed before that my report 
will be believed. And now may the Lord bless you and keep you. May the Lord 
make His face shine upon you and give you peace.' Cameron, as God is my witness, 
the young man stood and walked out of the bus. I have been lying here, praising 
God with my tears ever since.¡¨ 
There was nothing more to say. Tsion slumped into a seat in the middle of the bus. 
Buck returned to the wheel and drove off to the border crossing in Egypt. 
Half an hour later Buck and Tsion pulled up to the entrance into the Sinai. This 
time, God merely used the carelessness of the system to allow Ben-Judah to slip 
through. The only crossing gate was on the other side of the border into the Sinai. 
When Buck was told to stop, one guard immediately boarded and began barking 
orders in his own tongue. Buck said, ¡§English?¡¨ 
¡§English it is, gentlemen.¡¨ He looked back at Tsion. ¡§You'll be able to go back to 
sleep in a few minutes there, old-timer,¡¨ he said. ¡§You've got to come in and be 
processed first. I'll search your bus while you're in there, and you'll be on your 
way.¡¨ 
Buck, emboldened by the most recent miracle, looked at Tsion and shrugged. He 

waited as Tsion made way for the guard to get past him and begin the search, but 
Tsion motioned to Buck that he should get going. Buck hurried off the bus and into 
the building. As his papers were being processed, the guard said, ¡§No trouble at the 
Israeli checkpoint then?¡¨ 
Buck nearly smiled. No problem? There's no problem when God is on your side. 
¡§No, sir.¡¨ 
Buck couldn't help himself. He kept looking over his shoulder for Tsion. Where had 
he gone now? Had God made him invisible? 
This was a much easier and quicker process. Apparently the Egyptians were used to 
simply rubber-stamping whatever the Israelis had approved. You couldn't get to this 
checkpoint without going through the previous, so unless the Israelis were trying to 
dump their castoffs, it was usually smooth sailing. Buck's papers were stamped and 
stacked and handed back to him with just a few questions. ¡§Less than a hundred 
kilometers to Al Arish,¡¨ the guard said. ¡§No commercial flights scheduled out of 
there at this time, of course.¡¨ 
¡§I know,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I have made my own arrangements.¡¨ 
¡§Very good then, Mr. Katz. All the best.¡¨ 
All the best is right! Buck thought. 
He turned to hurry out to the bus. There was no sign of Tsion. The original guard 
was still on the bus. As Buck began to board, Tsion came from behind the bus and 
stepped in front of him. They boarded together. The guard was going through 
Buck's bag. ¡§Impressive equipment, Mr. Katz.¡¨ 
¡§Thanks.¡¨ 
Tsion casually moved past the guard and went back to where he had been sitting 
when they arrived. He stretched out on the seat. 
¡§And you work for whom?¡¨ the guard asked. 
¡§International Harvesters,¡¨ Buck said. Tsion rose up briefly in his seat, and Buck 
nearly laughed. Surely Tsion appreciated that. 
The guard closed the bag. ¡§You're both all processed then and ready to proceed?¡¨ 
¡§All set,¡¨ Buck said. 
The guard looked toward the back. Tsion was snoring. The guard turned 
toward,Buck and spoke quietly, ¡§Carry on.¡¨ 
Buck tried not to be too eager to drive off, but he popped the clutch when the guard 
was clear of the front of the bus, and soon he was out onto the road again. ¡§All 
right, Tsion, where were you that time?¡¨ 
Tsion sat up. ¡§Did you like my snore?¡¨ Buck laughed. 
¡§Very impressive. Where were you when the guard thought you were being 
processed with me?¡¨ 

¡§Merely standing behind the bus. You got off and went one way, I got off and went 
the other.¡¨ 
¡§You're joking.¡¨ 
¡§I did not know what to do, Cameron. He was so friendly, and he had seen me. I 
certainly wasn't going to walk into the processing center with no papers. When you 
returned, I figured I had been gone an appropriate time.¡¨ 
¡§The question now,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§is how long before that guard mentions he saw 
two men on the bus.¡¨ 
Tsion carefully made his way up to the seat behind Buck. ¡§Yes,¡¨ he said. ¡§First he 
will have to convince them that he was not seeing things. Maybe it will not come 
up. But if it does, they will soon give chase.¡¨ 
¡§I trust the Lord to deliver us, because he has promised he will,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§But I 
also think we had better be as prepared as possible.¡¨ He pulled off to the side of the 
road. He topped off the water in the radiator and dumped nearly two liters of oil into 
the engine. He filled the gas tanks. 
¡§It is like we are living in the New Testament,¡¨ Tsion said. 
Buck, clutching and shifting, said ¡§They might be able to overtake this old bus. But 
if we can make it to Al Arish, we'll be on that Learjet and out over the 
Mediterranean before they know we're gone.¡¨ 
For the next two hours, the road grew worse. The temperature rose. Buck kept an 
eye on the rearview mirror and noticed that Tsion kept looking back as well. 
Occasionally a smaller, faster car would appear on the horizon and fly past them. 
¡§What are we worried about, Cameron? God would not bring us so far only to have 
us captured. Would he?¡¨ 
¡§You're asking me? I never had anything like this happen to me until I ran into 
you!¡¨ 
They rode in silence for half an hour. Finally, Tsion spoke, and Buck thought he 
sounded as strong as he had since Buck first saw him in the hideout. ¡§Cameron, you 
know I have had to force myself to eat up until now, and I have not done a good job 
at it.¡¨ 
¡§So eat something! There's lots of stuff in here!¡¨ 
¡§I believe I will. The pain in my heart is so deep that I feel as if I will never do 
anything again only for the sake of my own enjoyment. I used to love to eat. Even 
before I knew Christ, I knew that food was God's provision for us. He wanted us to 
enjoy it. I am hungry now, but I will eat only for sustenance and energy.¡¨ 
¡§You don't have to explain it to me, Tsion. I only pray that sometime between now 
and the Glorious Appearing, you'll get some relief from the deep wound you must 
feel.¡¨ 

¡§You want anything?¡¨ 
Buck shook his head, then thought better of it. ¡§Anything there with lots of fiber 
and natural sugar?¡¨ 
He didn't know what was ahead, but he didn't want to be physically weak, 
regardless. 
Tsion snorted. ¡§High in fiber and natural sugars? This is food from Israel, Cameron. 
You just described everything we eat.¡¨ 
The rabbi tossed Buck several fig bars that reminded him of granola and fruit. Buck 
had not realized his own level of hunger until he began to eat. He suddenly felt 
supercharged and hoped Tsion felt the same. Especially when he saw flashing 
yellow lights on the horizon far behind them. 
The question now was whether to try to outrun the official vehicle or to feign 
innocence and merely let it pass. Perhaps it was not after them anyway. Buck shook 
his head. What was he thinking? Of course this was probably their Waterloo. He 
was confident God would bring them through, but he also didn't want to be naive 
enough to think an emergency vehicle would be coming at them from the border 
crossing without Buck and Tsion in its sights. ¡§Tsion, you'd better secure everything 
and get out of sight.¡¨ 
Tsion leaned to stare out the back. ¡§More excitement,¡¨ he muttered. ¡§Lord, have we 
not had enough for one day? Cameron, I will put most of it away, but I am taking a 
few morsels with me to my bed.¡¨ 
¡§Suit yourself. From the looks of those cars at the border, they're small and have 
very little power. If I step on it, it will take them a long time to catch us.¡¨ 
¡§And when they do?¡¨ Tsion said, from beneath the seats in the back. 
¡§I am trying to think of a strategy now.¡¨ 
¡§I will be praying,¡¨ Tsion said. 
Buck nearly laughed. ¡§Your praying has resulted in a lot of mayhem tonight,¡¨ he 
said. 
There was no response from the back. Buck pushed the bus for all it was worth. He 
got it up to over eighty kilometers an hour, which he guessed was in the fifty milean-
hour range. It rattled and shook and bounced, and the various metal parts 
squeaked in protest. He knew that if he could see the border patrol car, its driver 
could see him. There was no sense cutting the lights and hoping they assumed he 
had pulled off the road. 
It seemed he might be pulling away from them. He could not judge distances well in 
the darkness, but they didn't appear to be coming at high speed. The lights were 
flashing, and he was convinced they were after him, but he pushed ahead. 
From the back: ¡§Cameron, I think I have the right to know. What is your plan? 
What will you do when they overtake us, as they surely will?¡¨ 

¡§Well, I'll tell you one thing, I'm not going back to that border. I'm not even sure I'll 
let them pull me over.¡¨ 
¡§How will you know what they want?¡¨ 
¡§If it's the man who searched the bus, we'll know what they want, won't we?¡¨ 
¡§I suppose we will.¡¨ 
¡§I will holler at him from the window and urge him to deal with us at the airport. 
There's no sense driving all the way back to the border.¡¨ 
¡§But will that not be his decision?¡¨ 
¡§I guess I'll have to engage in civil disobedience then,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§But what if he forces you off the road? Makes you pull over?¡¨ 
¡§I'll try to avoid hitting him at all costs, but I will not stop, and if I am forced to 
stop, I will not turn around.¡¨ 
¡§I appreciate your resolve, Cameron. I will pray, and you do as God leads you.¡¨ 
¡§You know I will.¡¨ 
Buck guessed they were thirty kilometers from the airport outside Al Arish. If he 
could even keep the bus close to sixty kilometers per hour, they could make it in 
half an hour. The border patrol car would surely overtake them before that. But they 
were so much closer to the airport than to the border, he was certain the officer 
would see the wisdom of following them to the airport rather than leading them 
back to the border. 
¡§Tsion, I need your help.¡¨ 
¡§Anything.¡¨ 
¡§Stay down and out of sight, but find my phone in my bag and get it to me.¡¨ 
When Tsion crawled next to Buck with his phone, Buck asked him, ¡§Sir, how old 
are you?¡¨ 
¡§That is considered an impolite question in my culture,¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§Yeah, like I care about that now.¡¨ 
¡§I'm forty-six, Cameron. Why do you ask?¡¨ 
¡§You seem in pretty good shape.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you. I work out.¡¨ 
¡§You do? Really?¡¨ 
¡§Does that surprise you? You would be surprised at the number of scholars who 
work out. Of course there are many who do not, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§I just want to make sure you'll be able to run if you need to.¡¨ 
¡§I hope it does not come to that, but yes, I can run. I am not as fast as I was as a 

young man, but I have surprising endurance for one of my vintage.¡¨ 
¡§That's all I wanted to know.¡¨ 
¡§Remind me to ask you some personal question sometime,¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§Seriously, Tsion. I did not offend you, did I?¡¨ 
Buck was strangely warmed. The rabbi actually chuckled. ¡§Oh, my friend, think 
about it. What would it take to offend me now?¡¨ 
¡§Tsion, you'd better get back where you were, but can you tell me how much 
gasoline we have left?¡¨ 
¡§The gauge is right there in front of you, Cameron. You tell me.¡¨ 
¡§No, I mean in our extra cans.¡¨ 
¡§I will check, but surely we do not have time to fill our tanks while we are being 
chased. What do you have in mind?¡¨ 
¡§Why do you ask so many questions?¡¨ 
¡§Because I am a student. I will always be a student. Anyway, we are in this 
together, are we not?¡¨ 
¡§Well, let me just give you a hint. While you're tapping on the sides of those gas 
cans to tell me how much we have left, I'm going to be checking the cigarette lighter 
on the dashboard.¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, cigarette lighters are the first to go in old vehicles, are they not?¡¨ 
¡§For our sakes, let's hope not.¡¨ 
Buck's phone buzzed. Startled, he flipped it open. ¡§Buck here.¡¨ 
¡§Buck! It's Chloe!¡¨ 
¡§Chloe! I really can't talk to you now. Trust me. Don't ask any questions. For right 
now I'm OK, but please ask everybody to pray and pray now. And listen, somehow, 
on the Internet or something, find the phone number for the airport at Al Arish, 
south of the Gaza Strip on the Mediterranean in the Sinai. Get hold of Ken Ritz, 
who should be waking there. Have him call me at this number,¡¨ 
¡§But Buck¡X¡¨ 
¡§Chloe, it's life or death!¡¨ 
¡§You call me as soon as you're safe!¡¨ 
¡§Promise!¡¨ 
Buck clapped the phone shut and heard Tsion from the back. ¡§Cameron! Are you 
planning to blow up this bus?¡¨ 
¡§You really are a scholar, aren't you?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I just hope you wait until we get to the airport. I mean, a flaming bus may get us 
there faster, but your pilot friend may just ferry our remains to the States.¡¨ 

 ¡§That's all right, Chloe,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§I long since gave up trying to sleep. I'm up 
reading anyway.¡¨ Chloe told him of her strange conversation with Buck. 
¡§Don't waste time on the Internet,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§I've got a guide to all those phone 
numbers. Hang on.¡¨ 
¡§Daddy,¡¨ she said, ¡§it's gotta be a closer phone call for you anyway. Call Ken Ritz 
and tell him to call Buck.¡¨ 
¡§I'm tempted to fly over there myself, if I had a small enough craft.¡¨ 
¡§Daddy, we don't need both you and Buck endangering your lives at the same 
time.¡¨ 
¡§Chloe, we do that every day.¡¨ 
¡§Better hurry, Dad.¡¨ 
Buck guessed the border patrol car was less than half a mile behind him. He put the 
accelerator to the floor and the bus lurched. The steering wheel shook and bounced 
as they hurtled down the road. The gauges still looked OK for the moment, but 
Buck knew it was only a matter of time before the radiator overheated. 
¡§I am guessing we have about eight liters of gasoline,¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§That will be plenty.¡¨ 
¡§I agree, Cameron. That will be more than enough to make martyrs of us both.¡¨ 
Buck eased off the throttle just enough to smooth out the ride. Smooth, of course, 
was a misnomer. Buck felt it in his back and hips as they bounced along. The border 
patrol car had closed to within a quarter mile. 
Tsion called out from the back: ¡§Cameron, it is clear we are not going to outrun 
them to the airport, do you agree?¡¨ 
¡§Yes! So?¡¨ 
¡§Then it makes no sense to push this vehicle to its limit. It would be smarter to 
conserve water, oil, and gasoline to be sure we make it to the airport. If we break 
down, all your resolve means nothing.¡¨ 
Buck couldn't argue with that. He immediately slowed to about fifty kilometers per 
hour and sensed he had bought several miles. However, this also allowed the border 
patrol car to pull right up behind him. 
A siren sounded and a spotlight flashed in his outside rearview mirror. Buck merely 
waved and drove on. Soon it was yellow flashing lights, the spotlight, the siren, and 
the horn of the patrol car. Buck ignored them all. Finally, the squad car pulled even 
with him. He glanced down to see the very guard who had searched the bus. ¡§Fasten 
your seat belt, Tsion!¡¨ Buck hollered. ¡§The chase is on!¡¨ ¡§I wish I had a seat belt!¡¨ 

Buck continued at his modest speed as the patrol car stayed with him and the guard 
pointed that he should pull over. Buck waved at him and drove on. The guard pulled 
in front of the bus and slowed, again pointing to the side of the road. When Buck 
made no attempt to pull off, the car slowed even more, forcing him to swerve 
around it. He had no acceleration, however, and the patrol car, now on the other side 
of him, sped up to keep him from passing. Buck merely backed off and got behind 
the car again. When it stopped, he stopped. 
When the guard got out, Buck backed up and drove around him, building about a 
hundred-yard gap before the guard jumped back in and quickly caught up again. 
This time, the guard pulled alongside and showed Buck a handgun. Buck opened his 
window and hollered, ¡§If I stop, this bus will stall! Follow me to Al Arish!¡¨ 
¡§No!¡¨ came the reply. ¡§You follow me back to the border!¡¨ 
¡§We are much closer to the airport! I don't think this bus can make it back to the 
border!¡¨ 
¡§Then leave it! You can ride back with me!¡¨ 
¡§I'll see you at the airport!¡¨ 
¡§No!¡¨ 
But Buck slid his window shut. When the guard pointed his weapon at Buck's 
window, Buck ducked but kept going. 
Buck's phone was buzzing. He clicked it open. ¡§Talk to me!¡¨ 
¡§This is Ritz. What's the deal?¡¨ 
¡§Ken, have you passed through customs there?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah! I'm ready when you are.¡¨ 
¡§You ready for some fun?¡¨ 
¡§I thought you'd never ask! I haven't had any real fun for ages.¡¨ 
¡§You're gonna risk your life and break the law,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Is that all? I've been there before.¡¨ 
¡§Tell me your position and all, Ken,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Looks like I'm the only plane going out of here tonight. I'm just outside of a hangar 
at the end of the runway. My plane is, I mean. I'm talking to you from the little 
terminal here.¡¨ 
¡§But you've been processed, and you're ready to leave Egypt?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, no problem.¡¨ 
¡§What did you tell them as far as other passengers and cargo?¡¨ 
¡§I figured you wouldn't want me to talk about anybody but you.¡¨ 
¡§Perfect, Ken! Thanks! And who do they think I am?¡¨ 

¡§You're exactly who I say you are, Mr. Katz.¡¨ 
¡§Ken, that's great. Hang on just a second.¡¨ The guard had pulled in front of the bus 
and now slammed on his brakes. Buck had to swerve almost all the way off the road 
to miss him, and when he pulled back on, the bus fishtailed and nearly went over. 
¡§I am rolling back here!¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§Enjoy the ride!¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I'm not stopping, and I'm not turning around.¡¨ 
The guard had turned off his flashing yellow lights and his spotlight. The siren was 
silent now too. He quickly caught up with the bus and tapped it from behind. He 
tapped it again. And again. 
¡§He's afraid to hurt that squad car, isn't he?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Do not be so sure,¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§I'm sure.¡¨ Buck slammed on the brakes, making Tsion slide forward and cry out. 
Buck heard the screeching tires behind him and saw the squad car lurch off the right 
side of the road and down into loose gravel. Buck punched the accelerator. The bus 
stalled. As he tried to start it he saw the squad car, still in the gravel, coming up 
along his right side. The engine kicked in, and Buck popped the clutch. He picked 
up the phone. ¡§Ken, you still there?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, what in the world's going on?¡¨ 
¡§You wouldn't believe it!¡¨ 
¡§You bein' chased or something?¡¨ 
¡§That's the understatement of the year, Ritz! I don't think we're gonna have time to 
go through customs there. I need to know how to get to your plane. You need to be 
cleared, engines running, door open, and stairs down.¡¨ 
¡§This is gonna be fun!¡¨ Ritz said. 
¡§You have no idea,¡¨ Buck said. The pilot quickly told Buck the layout of the airstrip 
and the terminal and precisely where he was. ¡§We're within about ten minutes of 
you,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§If I can keep this thing rolling, I'll try to get as close to the 
runway and your plane as possible. What am I gonna run into?¡¨ 
The squad car came up onto the road, spun, and now faced the bus. Buck swerved 
left, but the car cut him off. Buck couldn't avoid smashing him. The impact turned 
the car around in the road and knocked the hood off. Buck sensed little damage to 
the big old bus, but the temperature gauge was rising. 
¡§Who's chasing you anyway?¡¨ Ritz said. 
¡§Egyptian border patrol,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Then you can bet they're gonna radio ahead here. There'll be some kind of a 
roadblock.¡¨ 
¡§I just hit the squad car. Is this going to be a roadblock I can blast through?¡¨ 

¡§You'll have to play that one by ear. If you're as close as you say you are, I'd better 
get out to my plane.¡¨ 
¡§The cigarette lighter works!¡¨ Buck hollered to Tsion. 
¡§I am not sure I wanted to hear that!¡¨ 
The smashed patrol car resumed pursuit. Buck saw the lights of the airstrip in the 
distance. ¡§Tsion, come up here. We need to strategize.¡¨ 
¡§Strategy? It is lunacy!¡¨ 
¡§And what would you call what else we've been through?¡¨ 
¡§The lunacy of the Lord! Just tell me what to do, Cameron, and I will do it. Nothing 
will be able to stop us tonight.¡¨ 
The guard in the squad car had apparently radioed ahead not only for a roadblock 
but also for help. Two sets of headlights, side-by-side and covering both lanes of the 
road, headed toward the bus. ¡§Have you heard the phrase 'playing chicken'?¡¨ Buck 
asked. 
¡§No,¡¨ Tsion said, ¡§but it is becoming clear to me. Are you going to challenge 
them?¡¨ 
¡§Don't you agree they have more to lose than we do?¡¨ 
¡§I do. I am hanging on. Do what you have to do!¡¨ 
Buck pressed the accelerator to the floor. The heat gauge was pressed to the 
maximum and quivering. Steam billowed from the engine. ¡§Here's what we're going 
to do, Tsion! Listen carefully!¡¨ 
¡§Just concentrate on your driving, Cameron! Tell me later!¡¨ 
¡§There will be no later! If these cars don't back down, there's going to be a 
tremendous crash. I think we'll be able to keep going either way. When we get to 
whatever roadblock they have for us at the airport, we have to make a quick 
decision. I need you to pour all those gas containers into the one big water bucket, 
the one that's wide open at the top. I'll have the cigarette lighter hot and ready to go. 
If we come upon a roadblock I think I can smash through, I'll just keep going and 
get as close to the runway as possible. The Lear is going to be off to our right and 
about a hundred yards from the terminal. If the roadblock is not something we can 
smash through, I'll try to go around it. If that's impossible, I'm going to pull the 
wheel hard to the left and slam on the brakes. That will make the back end swing 
around into the roadblock and anything loose will slide to the back door. You must 
put that bucket of gasoline in the aisle about eight feet from the back door, and 
when I give you the signal, toss that cigarette lighter into it. It needs to be just 
enough ahead of the collision so it's burning before we hit.¡¨ 
¡§I do not understand! How will we escape that?¡¨ 
¡§If the roadblock is impenetrable, it's our only hope! When that back door blows 

open and that burning gasoline flies out, we have to be hanging on up here with all 
our might so we don't get thrown back into it. While they're concentrating on the 
fire, we jump out the front and run toward the jet. Got it?¡¨ 
¡§I get it, Cameron, but I am not optimistic!¡¨ 
¡§Hang on!¡¨ Buck shouted as two cars from the airport closed on him. Tsion hooked 
one arm around the metal pole behind Buck and wrapped his other around Buck's 
chest, grabbing the back of the chair like a human seat belt. 
Buck gave no indication of slowing or swerving and headed straight for the two sets 
of headlights. At the last instant he closed his eyes, fully expecting a huge collision. 
When he opened his eyes, the road was clear. He looked first one way then the other 
behind him. Both cars had gone off the road, one of them rolling. The original 
pursuit car was still behind him, and Buck heard gunfire. 
Less than a mile ahead the small airport loomed. Huge fences of mesh and barbed 
wire flanked the entrance, and just inside sat a blockade of a half-dozen vehicles 
and several armed soldiers. Buck could see he would not be able to blast through it 
or go around. 
He pressed in the cigarette lighter as Tsion lugged the gas cans and the bucket to the 
back. 
¡§It is sloshing around!¡¨ Tsion called out. 
¡§Just do the best you can!¡¨ 
As Buck raced toward the open gate and the huge blockade, the patrol car still 
following close behind, the cigarette lighter popped out. Buck grabbed it and tossed 
it back to Tsion. It bounced and rolled under a seat. ¡§Oh no!¡¨ Buck shouted. 
¡§I have got it!¡¨ Tsion said. Buck peeked in the rearview mirror as Tsion climbed out 
from under a seat, tossed the cigarette lighter into the bucket, and scrambled to the 
front. 
The back of the bus burst into flames. ¡§Hang on!¡¨ Buck shouted, pulling hard to the 
left and slamming on the brakes. The bus whirled so fast it nearly tipped over. The 
back smashed into the stockade of cars, and the back door burst open, flaming 
gasoline splashing everywhere. 
Buck and Tsion jumped out and ran, low as they could, around the left side of the 
blockade as guards began firing into the bus and others screamed and ran from the 
flames. Tsion was limping. Buck grabbed the older man and dragged him around 
the dark side of the terminal near the runway. 
There was the Learjet, ready for takeoff. Never had a plane looked like such an 
oasis of safety. Buck looked back twice, but no one seemed to have seen them 
escape. It was too good to be true, but it fit with everything else that had happened 
that night. 
Fifty feet from the plane, Buck heard shots and turned to see a half-dozen guards 

racing toward them, firing high-powered weapons. When they reached the steps, 
Buck grabbed Tsion by the belt in the back and threw him aboard. As Buck dived 
into the plane, a bullet ripped through the bottom of the heel of his right boot. Pain 
shot through the side of his foot as he yanked the door shut, Ritz already rolling. 
Buck and Tsion crawled up to behind the cockpit. 
Ritz muttered, ¡§Those rascals shoot my plane, I'm gonna be really mad.¡¨ 
The plane took off like a rocket and rose quickly. ¡§Next stop,¡¨ Ritz announced, 
¡§Palwaukee Airport, State of Illinois, in the U.S. of A.¡¨ 
Buck lay on the floor, unable to move. He wanted to look out the window, but he 
didn't dare. Tsion buried his face in his hands. He wept and seemed to be praying. 
Ritz turned. ¡§Well, Williams, you sure left a mess down there. What was that all 
about?¡¨ 
¡§It would take a week to tell,¡¨ Buck said, panting. 
¡§Well,¡¨ Ritz said, ¡§whatever it was, that was sure fun.¡¨ 
An hour later, Buck and Tsion sat in reclining seats, assessing the damage. ¡§It is 
only sprained,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§I caught my foot under one of the seat supports when 
we first hit. I was afraid I had broken it. It will heal quickly.¡¨ 
Buck slowly took off his right boot and held it up so Tsion could see the trajectory 
of the bullet. A clean hole had been blasted from the sole to the ankle. Buck took off 
a bloody sock. ¡§Would you look at that?¡¨ he said, smiling. ¡§I won't even need 
stitches. Just a nick there.¡¨ Tsion used Ken Ritz's first-aid kit to treat Buck's foot 
and found an Ace bandage for his own ankle. 
Finally settled back with their wounded limbs elevated, Tsion and Buck looked at 
each other. ¡§Are you as exhausted as I am?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I am ready to sleep,¡¨ Tsion said, ¡§but we would be remiss, would we not, if we did 
not return thanks.¡¨ 
Buck leaned forward and bowed his head. The last thing he heard, before he slipped 
into a sleep of sweet relief, was the beautiful cadence of Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah's 
prayer, thanking God that ¡§the glory of the Lord was our rear guard.¡¨ 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN 
BUCK awoke nearly ten hours later, pleased that Tsion was still sleeping. He 
checked Tsion's Ace bandage. The ankle was swollen, but it didn't look serious. His 
own foot was too tender to go back into his boot. He limped forward. ¡§How are you 
doing, Cap?¡¨ 
¡§A lot better, now that we're over American airspace. I had no idea what you guys 

got yourselves into, and who knew what kind of fighter pilots might have been on 
my tail.¡¨ 
¡§I don't think we were worth all that, with World War III going on,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Where'd you leave all your stuff?¡¨ 
Buck whirled around. What was he looking for? He had brought nothing with him. 
Everything he brought had been in that leather bag, which by now was charred and 
melted. ¡§I promised to call my wife back, too!¡¨ he said. 
¡§You'll be happy to know I already talked to your people,¡¨ Ritz said. ¡§They were 
mighty relieved to hear you were on your way home.¡¨ 
¡§You didn't say anything about my wound or about my passenger, did you?¡¨ 
¡§Give me some credit, Williams. You and I both know your wound isn't worth 
worrying about, so no wife needs to hear about that until she sees it. And as for your 
passenger, I have no idea who he is or whether your people knew you were bringing 
him home for dinner, so, no, I didn't say a word about him either.¡¨ 
¡§You're a good man, Ritz,¡¨ Buck said, clapping him on the shoulder. 
¡§I like a compliment as much as the next guy, but I hope you know you owe me 
battle pay on top of everything else.¡¨ 
¡§That can be arranged.¡¨ 
Because Ritz had carefully documented his plane and passenger on the way out of 
the country a few days before, he was on record and easily made it back through the 
North American radar net. He did not announce his extra passenger, and because 
personnel at Palwaukee Airport were not in the habit of processing international 
travelers, no one there paid any attention when an American pilot in his fifties, an 
Israeli rabbi in his forties, and an American writer in his thirties disembarked. Ritz 
was the only one not limping. 
Buck had finally reached Chloe from the plane. It sounded to him as if she might 
have bitten his head off for keeping her up all night worrying and praying, had she 
not been so relieved to hear his voice. ¡§Believe me, babe,¡¨ he said, ¡§when you hear 
the whole story, you'll understand.¡¨ 
Buck had convinced her that only the Tribulation Force and Loretta could know 
about Tsion. ¡§Don't tell Verna. Can you come alone to Palwaukee?¡¨ 
¡§I'm not up to driving yet, Buck,¡¨ she said. ¡§Amanda can drive me out there. Verna 
isn't even staying with us anymore. She has moved in with friends.¡¨ 
¡§That could be a problem,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I may have made myself vulnerable to the 
worst possible person in my profession.¡¨ 
¡§We'll have to talk about that, Buck.¡¨ 
It was as if Tsion Ben-Judah was in some international witness protection program. 
He was smuggled into Loretta's home under the cover of night. Amanda and Chloe, 

who had heard from Rayford the news about Tsion's family, greeted him warmly 
and compassionately but seemed not to know how much to say. Loretta had a light 
snack waiting for all of them. ¡§I'm old and not too up on things,¡¨ she said, ¡§but I'm 
quickly getting the picture here. The less I know about your friend, the better, am I 
right?¡¨ 
Tsion answered her circumspectly. ¡§I am deeply grateful for your hospitality.¡¨ 
Loretta soon trundled off to bed, expressing her delight in offering hospitality as her 
service to the Lord. Buck, Chloe, and Tsion limped into the living room, followed 
by a chuckling Amanda. ¡§I wish Rayford were here,¡¨ she said. ¡§I feel like the only 
teetotaler in a car full of drunks. Every chore that requires two feet is going to fall to 
me.¡¨ 
Chloe, characteristically direct, leaned forward and reached for Tsion's hand with 
both of hers. ¡§Dr. Ben-Judah, we have heard so much about you. We feel blessed of 
God to have you with us. We can't imagine your pain.¡¨ 
The rabbi took a deep breath and exhaled slowly, his lips quivering. ¡§I cannot tell 
you how deeply grateful I am to God that he has brought me here, and to you who 
have welcomed me. I confess my heart is broken. The Lord has shown me his hand 
so clearly since the death of my family that I cannot deny his presence. Yet there are 
times I wonder how I will go on. I do not want to dwell on how my loved ones lost 
their lives. I must not think about who did this and how it was accomplished. I 
know my wife and children are safe and happy now, but it is very difficult for me to 
imagine their horror and pain before God received them. I must pray for relief from 
bitterness and hatred. Most of all, I feel terrible guilt that I brought this upon them. I 
do not know what else I could have done, short of trying to make them more secure. 
I could not have avoided serving God in the way he has called me.¡¨ 
Amanda and Buck each moved to put a hand on Tsion's shoulders, and with the 
three of them touching him, they all prayed as he wept. 
They talked well into the night, Buck explaining that Tsion would be the object of 
an international manhunt, which would likely have even Carpathia's approval. 
¡§How many people know about the underground shelter at the church?¡¨ 
¡§Believe it or not,¡¨ Chloe said, ¡§unless Loretta has read the printouts from Bruce's 
computer, even she thinks it was just some new utility installation.¡¨ 
¡§How was he able to keep that from her? She was at the church every day while it 
was being excavated.¡¨ 
¡§You'll have to read Bruce's stuff, Buck. In short, she was under the impression that 
all that work was for the new water tank and parking lot improvements. Just like 
everyone else in the church thought.¡¨ 
Two hours later, Buck and Chloe lay in bed, unable to sleep. ¡§I knew this was going 
to be difficult,¡¨ she said. ¡§I guess I just didn't know how much.¡¨ 
¡§Do you wish you'd never gotten involved with somebody like me?¡¨ 

¡§Let's just say it hasn't been boring.¡¨ 
Chloe then told him about Verna Zee. ¡§She thought we were all wacky.¡¨ 
¡§Aren't we? The question is, how much damage can she do to me? She knows 
completely where I stand now, and if that gets back to people at the Weekly, it'll 
shoot up the line to Carpathia like lightning. Then what?¡¨ 
Chloe told Buck that she and Amanda and Loretta had at least persuaded Verna to 
keep Buck's secret for now. 
¡§But why would she do that?¡¨ Buck said. ¡§We've never liked each other. We've 
been at each other's throats. The only reason we traded favors the other night was 
that World War III made our skirmishes look petty.¡¨ 
¡§Your skirmishes were petty,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§She admitted she was intimidated by 
you and jealous of you. You were what she had always hoped to be, and she even 
confessed that she knew she was no journalist compared to you.¡¨ 
¡§That doesn't give me confidence about her ability to keep my secret.¡¨ 
¡§You would have been proud of us, Buck. Loretta had already told Verna her entire 
story, how she was the only person in her extended family not taken in the Rapture. 
Then I got my licks in, telling her all about how you and I met, where you were 
when the Rapture happened, and how you and I and Daddy became believers.¡¨ 
¡§Verna must have thought we were all from another planet,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Is that why 
she moved out?¡¨ 
¡§No. I think she felt in the way.¡¨ 
¡§Was she sympathetic at all?¡¨ 
¡§She actually was. I took her aside once and told her that the most important thing 
was what she decided to do about Christ. But I also told her that our very lives 
depended upon her protecting the news of your loyalties from your colleagues and 
superiors. She said, 'His superiors? Cameron's only superior is Carpathia.' But she 
also said something else very interesting, Buck. She said that as much as she 
admires Carpathia and what he has done for America and the world¡Xgag¡Xshe 
hates the way he controls and manipulates the news.¡¨ 
¡§The question, Chloe, is whether you extracted from her any promises of my 
protection.¡¨ 
¡§She wanted to trade favors. Probably wanted some sort of a promotion or raise. I 
told her you would never work that way, and she said she figured that. I asked if she 
would promise me that she would at least not say anything to anyone until after she 
had talked to you. And then, are you ready for this? I made her promise to come to 
Bruce's memorial service Sunday.¡¨ 
¡§And she's coming?¡¨ 
¡§She said she would. I told her she'd better be there early. It'll be packed.¡¨ 

¡§It sure will. How foreign is all this going to be to her?¡¨ 
¡§She claims she's been in church only about a dozen times in her life, for weddings 
and funerals and such. Her father was a self-styled atheist, and her mother 
apparently had been raised in some sort of a strict denomination that she turned her 
back on as an adult. Verna says the idea of attending church was never discussed in 
her home.¡¨ 
¡§And she was never curious? Never searched for any deeper meaning in life?¡¨ 
¡§No. In fact, she admitted she's been a pretty cynical and miserable person for years. 
She thought it made her the perfect journalist.¡¨ 
¡§She always gave me the willies,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I was as cynical and negative as any, 
but hopefully there was a balance of humor and personability there.¡¨ 
¡§Oh yeah, that's you all right,¡¨ Chloe teased. ¡§That's why I'm still tempted to have a 
child with you, even now.¡¨ 
Buck didn't know what to say or think. They had had this discussion before. The 
idea of bringing a child into the Tribulation was, on the surface, unconscionable, 
and yet they had both agreed to think about it, pray about it, and see what Scripture 
said about it. ¡§You want to talk about this now?¡¨ 
She shook her head. ¡§No. I'm tired. But let's not shut the door on it.¡¨ 
¡§You know I won't, Chlo',¡¨ he said. ¡§I also need to tell you I'm on a different time 
zone. I slept all the way back.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Buck! I've missed you. Can't you at least stay with me until I fall asleep?¡¨ 
¡§Sure. Then I'm going to sneak over to the church and see how Bruce's shelter 
turned out.¡¨ 
¡§I'll tell you what you ought to do,¡¨ Chloe said, ¡§is finish reading Bruce's stuff. 
We've been marking passages we want Daddy to read at the memorial service. I 
don't know how he'll get through all of it without taking the whole day, but it's 
astounding stuff. Wait till you see it.¡¨ 
¡§I can't wait.¡¨ 
Rayford Steele was having a crisis of conscience. Packed and ready to go, he sat 
reading the Global Community International Daily while awaiting word from Hattie 
Durham's driver that he was in front of the building. Rayford missed Amanda. In 
many ways, they still seemed strangers, and he knew that in the little more than five 
years before the Glorious Appearing, they would never have the time to get to know 
each other and develop the lifelong relationship and bond he had shared with Irene. 
For that matter, he still missed Irene. On the other hand, Rayford felt guilty that in 
many ways, he was closer to Amanda already than he had ever been to Irene. 
That was his own fault, he knew. He had not known nor shared Irene's faith until it 

was too late. She had been so sweet, so giving. While he knew of worse marriages 
and less loyal husbands, he often regretted that he was never the husband to her that 
he could have been. She had deserved better. 
To Rayford, Amanda was a gift from God. He recalled not even having liked her at 
first. A handsome, wealthy woman slightly older than he, she was so nervous upon 
first meeting him that she gave the impression of being a jabberer. She didn't let him 
or Chloe get a word in, but kept correcting herself, answering her own questions, 
and rambling. 
Rayford and Chloe were bemused by her, but seeing her as a future love interest 
never crossed his mind. They were impressed with how taken Amanda had been 
with Irene from her brief encounter. Amanda had seemed to catch the essence of 
Irene's heart and soul. The way she described her, Rayford and Chloe might have 
thought she had known her for years. 
Chloe had initially suspected Amanda of having designs on Rayford. Having lost 
her family in the Rapture, she was suddenly a lonely, needy woman. Rayford had 
not sensed anything but a genuine desire to let him know what his former wife had 
meant to her. But Chloe's suspicion had put him on guard. He made no attempt to 
pursue Amanda and was careful to watch for any signs coming the other way. There 
were none. 
That made Rayford curious. He watched how she assimilated herself into New 
Hope Village Church. She was cordial to him, but never inappropriate, and never-in 
his mind-forward. Even Chloe eventually had to admit that Amanda did not come 
off as a flirt to anyone. She quickly became known around New Hope as a servant. 
That was her spiritual gift. She busied herself about the work of the church. She 
would cook, clean, drive, teach, greet, serve on boards and committees, whatever 
was necessary. A full-time professional woman, her spare time was spent in church 
life. ¡§It's always been all or nothing with me,¡¨ she said. ¡§When I became a believer, 
it was lock, stock, and barrel.¡¨ 
From a distance, having hardly socialized with her after that first encounter when 
she merely wanted to talk to him and Chloe about Irene, Rayford became an 
admirer. He found her quiet, gentle, giving spirit most attractive. When he first 
found himself wanting to spend time with her, he still wasn't thinking of her 
romantically. He just liked her. Liked her smile. Liked her look. Liked her attitude. 
He had sat in on one of her Sunday school classes. She was a most engaging teacher 
and a quick study. The next week, he found her sitting in his class. She was 
complimentary. They joked about someday team-teaching. But that day didn't come 
until after they had double-dated with Buck and Chloe. It wasn't long before they 
were desperately in love. Having been married just a few months before in a double 
ceremony with Buck and Chloe had been one of the small islands of happiness in 
Rayford's life during the worst period of human history. 
Rayford was eager to get back to the States to see Amanda. He also looked forward 

to some time with Hattie on the plane. He knew the work of drawing her to Christ 
was that of the Spirit and not his responsibility, but still he felt he should maximize 
every legitimate opportunity to persuade her. His problem that Saturday morning 
was that every fiber of his being fought against his role as pilot for Nicolae 
Carpathia. Everything he had read, studied, and learned under Bruce Barnes's 
tutelage had convinced him and the other members of the Tribulation Force, as well 
as the congregation at New Hope, that Carpathia himself was the Antichrist. There 
were advantages to believers to have Rayford in the position he found himself, and 
Carpathia knew well where Rayford stood. What Nicolae did not know, of course, 
was that one of his other trusted employees, Cameron Williams, was now Rayford's 
son-in-law and had been a believer nearly as long as Rayford. 
How long could it last? Rayford wondered. Was he endangering Buck's and Chloe's 
lives? Amanda's? His own? He knew the day would come when what Bruce 
referred to as ¡§tribulation saints¡¨ would become the mortal enemies of the 
Antichrist. Rayford would have to choose his timing carefully. Someday, according 
to Bruce's teaching, to merely have the right to buy and sell, citizens of the Global 
Community would have to take the ¡§mark of the beast.¡¨ No one knew yet exactly 
what form this would take, but the Bible indicated it would be a mark on the 
forehead or on the hand. There would be no faking. The mark would somehow be 
specifically detectable. Those who took the mark could never repent of it. They 
would be lost forever. Those who did not take the mark would have to live in 
hiding, their lives worth nothing to the Global Community. 
For now, Carpathia seemed merely amused by and impressed with Rayford. Perhaps 
he thought he had some connection, some insight to the opposition by keeping 
Rayford around. But what would happen when Carpathia discovered that Buck was 
not loyal and that Rayford had known all along? Worse, how long could Rayford 
justify in his own mind that the benefits of being able to eavesdrop and spy on 
Carpathia outweighed his own culpability in abetting the work of the evil one? 
Rayford glanced at his watch and speed-read the rest of the paper. Hattie and her 
driver would be there in a few moments. Rayford felt as if he had undergone 
sensory overload. Any one of the traumas he had witnessed since the day the war 
broke out might have institutionalized a normal man during normal times. Now, it 
seemed, Rayford had to take everything in stride. The most heinous, horrible 
atrocities were part of daily life. World War III had erupted, Rayford had 
discovered one of his dearest friends dead, and he had heard Nicolae Carpathia give 
the word to destroy major cities and then announce his grief and disappointment on 
international television. 
Rayford shook his head. He had done his job, flown his new plane, landed it thrice 
with Carpathia aboard, had gone to dinner with an old friend, gone to bed, had 
several phone conversations, rose, read his paper, and was now ready to blithely fly 
home to his family. What kind of a crazy world had this become? How could 
vestiges of normality remain in a world going to hell? 

The newspaper carried the stories out of Israel, how the rabbi who had so shocked 
his own nation and culture and religion and people¡Xnot to mention the rest of the 
world¡Xwith his conclusions about the messiahship of Jesus, had suddenly gone 
mad. Rayford knew the truth, of course, and looked forward with great anticipation 
to meeting this brave saint. 
Rayford knew Buck had somehow spirited him out of the country, but he didn't 
know how. He would be eager to get the details. Was this what they all had to look 
forward to? The martyrdom of their families? Their own deaths? He knew it was. 
He tried to push it from his mind. The juxtaposition between the easy, daily, routine 
life of a jumbo-jet pilot¡Xthe Rayford Steele he was a scant two years ago¡Xand the 
international political pinball he felt like today was almost more than his mind could 
assimilate. The phone rang. His ride was here. 
Buck was astonished at what he found at the church. Bruce had done such a good 
job camouflaging the shelter that Buck had almost not been able to find it again. 
Alone in the cavernous place, Buck headed downstairs. He walked through the 
fellowship hall, down a narrow corridor, past the washrooms, and past the furnace 
room. He was now at the end of a hallway with no light¡Xit would have been dark 
there at noon. Where was that entrance? He felt around the wall. Nothing. He 
moved back into the furnace room and flipped on the switch. A flashlight rested 
atop the furnace. He used it to find the hand-sized indentation in one of the concrete 
blocks on the wall. Setting himself and feeling the nagging sting in his right heel 
from his recent wound, he pushed with all his might, and a section of block wall slid 
open slightly. He stepped in and pulled it closed behind him. The flashlight 
illuminated a sign directly in front of him and six stair steps down: ¡§Danger! High 
Voltage. Authorized Personnel Only.¡¨ 
Buck smiled. That would have scared him off if he hadn't known better. He moved 
down the steps and took a left. Four more steps down was a huge steel door. The 
sign at the landing of the stairs was duplicated on the door. Bruce had shown him, 
the day of the weddings, how to open that seemingly locked door. 
Buck gripped the knob and turned it first right and then left. He pushed the handle 
in about a quarter of an inch, then back out half an inch. It seemed to free itself, but 
still it didn't turn right or left. He pushed in as he turned it slightly right and then 
left, following a secret pattern devised by Bruce. The door swung open, and Buck 
faced what appeared to be a man-sized circuit-breaker box. Not even a church the 
size of New Hope would carry that many circuit breakers, Buck knew. And as real 
as all those switches were, they led to no circuits. The chassis of that box was 
merely another door. It Opened easily and led to the hidden shelter. Bruce had done 
an amazing amount of work since Buck had seen it just a few months before. 
Buck wondered when Bruce had had the time to get in there after hours and do all 
that work. No one else knew about it, not even Loretta, so it was a good thing Bruce 

was handy. It was vented, air-conditioned, well-lit, paneled, ceilinged, floored, and 
contained all the necessities. Bruce had sectioned the twenty-four-by-twenty-fourfoot 
area into three rooms. There was a full bath and shower, a bedroom with four 
double bunk beds, and a larger room with a kitchenette on one end and a 
combination living room/study on the other. Buck was struck by the lack of 
claustrophobia, but he knew that with more than two people in there¡Xand being 
aware of how far underground you were¡Xit could soon become close. 
Bruce had spared no expense. Everything was new. There was a freezer, a 
refrigerator, a microwave, a range and oven, and it seemed every spare inch possible 
had been converted into storage space. Now, Buck wondered, what did Bruce do 
about connections? 
Buck crawled along the carpet and looked behind a sleeper sofa. There was a bank 
of telephone jacks. He traced the wiring up the wall and tried to spot where it would 
come out in the hallway. He turned off the lights, closed the circuit-breaker door, 
closed the metal door, jogged up the steps, and slid the brick door shut. In a dark 
corner of the hallway he shined the flashlight and saw the section of conduit that led 
from the floor up through the ceiling. He moved back into the fellowship hall and 
looked out the window. From the lights in the parking lot, he could make out that 
the conduit went outside at the ceiling level and snaked its way up toward the 
steeple. 
Bruce had told Buck that the reconditioned steeple had been the one vestige of the 
old church, the original building that had been torn down thirty years before. In the 
old days it actually had bells that beckoned people to church. The bells were still 
there, but the ropes that had once extended through a trapdoor to a spot where one 
of the ushers could ring them from the foyer had been cut. The steeple was now just 
decorative. Or was it? 
Buck lugged a stepladder from a utility room up into the foyer and pushed open the 
trapdoor. He hoisted himself above the ceiling and found a wrought-iron ladder that 
led into the belfry. He climbed up near the old bells, which were covered with 
cobwebs and dust and soot. When he reached the section open to the air, his last 
step made his hair brush a web, and he felt a spider skitter through his hair. He 
nearly lost his balance swatting it away and trying to hang on to the flashlight and to 
the ladder. It was just yesterday that he had been chased across the desert, rammed, 
shot at, and virtually chased through flames to his freedom. He snorted. He would 
almost rather go through all that again than have a spider run through his hair. 
Buck peeked down from the opening and looked for the conduit. It ran all the way 
up to the tapered part of the steeple. He reached the top of the ladder and stepped 
out through the opening. He was around the side of the steeple not illuminated from 
the ground. The old wood didn't feel solid. His sore foot began to twitch. Wouldn't 
this be great? he thought. Slip off the steeple of your own church and kill yourself in 
the middle of the night. 

Carefully surveying the area to be sure no cars were around, Buck briefly shined the 
flashlight at the top of where the conduit ran up the steeple. There was what 
appeared to be a miniature satellite dish, about two-and-a-half inches in diameter. 
Buck couldn't read the tiny sticker applied to the front of it, so he stood on tiptoe 
and peeled it off. He stuck it in his pocket and waited until he was safely back inside 
the steeple, down the ladder, and through the trapdoor to the stepladder before 
pulling it out. It read ¡§Donny Moore Technologies: Your Computer Doctor.¡¨ 
Buck put the stepladder away and began shutting off the lights. He grabbed a 
concordance off the shelf in Bruce's office and looked up the word housetop. 
Bruce's installing that crazy mini-satellite dish made him think of a verse he once 
heard or read about shouting the good news from the housetop. Matthew 10:27-28 
said, ¡§Whatever I tell you in the dark, speak in the light; and what you hear in the 
ear, preach on the housetops. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot 
kill the soul. But rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.¡¨ 
Wasn't it just like Bruce to take the Bible literally? 
Buck headed back to Loretta's house, where he would read Bruce's material until 
about six. Then he wanted to sleep until noon and be up when Amanda brought 
Rayford home from Mitchell Field in Milwaukee. 
Would he ever cease to be amazed? As he drove the few blocks, he was struck by 
the difference between the two vehicles he had driven within the last twenty-four 
hours. This, a six-figure Range Rover with everything but a kitchen sink, and that 
probably still-smoldering bus he had ¡§bought¡¨ from a man who might soon be a 
martyr. More amazing, however, was that Bruce had planned so well and prepared 
so much before his departure. With a little technology, the Tribulation Force and its 
newest member, Tsion Ben-Judah, would soon be proclaiming the gospel from a 
hidden location and sending it via satellite and the Internet to just about anybody in 
the world who wanted to hear it, and to many who didn't. 
It was two-thirty in the morning, Chicago time, when Buck returned from the 
church and sat before Bruce's papers on the dining room table at Loretta's home. 
They read like a novel. He drank in Bruce's Bible studies and commentary, finding 
his sermon notes for that very Sunday. Buck couldn't speak publicly in that church. 
He was vulnerable and exposed enough already, but he could sure help Rayford put 
together some remarks. 
Despite his years of flying, Rayford had never found a cure for jet lag, especially 
going east to west. His body told him it was the middle of the evening, and after a 
day of flying, he was ready for bed. But as the DC-10 taxied toward the gate in 
Milwaukee, it was noon Central Standard Time. Across the aisle from him, the 
beautiful and stylish Hattie Durham slept. Her long blonde hair was in a bun, and 
she had made a mess of her mascara trying to wipe away her tears. 
She had wept off and on almost the entire flight. Through two meals, a movie, and a 

snack, she had unburdened herself to Rayford. She did not want to stay with Nicolae 
Carpathia. She had lost her love for the man. She didn't understand him. While she 
wasn't ready to say he was the Antichrist, she certainly was not as impressed with 
him behind closed doors as most of his public was with him. 
Rayford had carefully avoided declaring his starkest beliefs about Carpathia. 
Clearly Rayford was no fan and hardly loyal, but he didn't consider it the better part 
of wisdom to state categorically that he agreed with most Christian believers that 
Carpathia fit the bill of the Antichrist. Of course, Rayford had no doubt about it. But 
he had seen broken romances heal before, and the last thing he wanted was to give 
Hattie ammunition that could be used against him with Carpathia. Soon enough it 
wouldn't matter who might bad-mouth him to Nicolae. They would be mortal 
enemies anyway. 
Most troubling to Rayford was Hattie's turmoil over her pregnancy. He wished she 
would refer to what she was carrying as a child. But it was a pregnancy to her, an 
unwanted pregnancy. It may not have been at the beginning, but now, given her 
state of mind, she did not want to give birth to Nicolae Carpathia's child. She didn't 
refer to it as a child or even a baby. 
Rayford had the difficult task of trying to plead his case without being too obvious. 
He had asked her, ¡§Hattie, what do you think your options are?¡¨ 
¡§I know there are only three, Rayford. Every woman has to consider these three 
options when she's pregnant.¡¨ Not every woman, Rayford thought. Hattie had 
continued: ¡§I can carry it to term and keep it, which I don't want to do. I can put it 
up for adoption, but I'm not sure I want to endure the entire pregnancy and birth 
process. And, of course, I can terminate the pregnancy.¡¨ 
¡§What does that mean exactly?¡¨ 
¡§What do you mean 'what does that mean?'¡¨ Hattie had said. ¡§Terminate the 
pregnancy means terminate the pregnancy.¡¨ 
¡§You mean have an abortion?¡¨ 
Hattie had stared at him like he was an imbecile. ¡§Yes! What did you think I 
meant?¡¨ 
¡§Well, it just seems you're using language that makes it sound like the easiest 
option.¡¨ 
¡§It is the easiest option, Rayford. Think about it. Obviously, the worst scenario 
would be to let a pregnancy run its entire course, go through all that discomfort, 
then go through the pain of labor. And then what if I got all those maternal instincts 
everybody talks about? Besides nine months of living in the pits, I'd go through all 
that stuff delivering somebody else's child. Then I'd have to give it up, which would 
just make everything worse.¡¨ 
¡§You just called it a child there,¡¨ Rayford had said. 

¡§Hmm?¡¨ 
¡§You had been referring to this as your pregnancy. But once you deliver it, then it's 
a child?¡¨ 
¡§Well, it will be someone's child. I hope not mine.¡¨ 
Rayford had let the matter drop while a meal was served. He had prayed silently 
that he would be able to communicate to her some truth. Subtlety was not his forte. 
She was not a dumb woman. Maybe the best tack was to be direct. 
Later in the flight, Hattie herself had brought up the issue again. ¡§Why do you want 
to make me feel guilty for considering an abortion?¡¨ 
¡§Hattie,¡¨ he had said, ¡§I can't make you feel guilty. You have to make your own 
decisions. What I think about it means very little, doesn't it?¡¨ 
¡§Well, I care what you think. I respect you as someone who's been around. I hope 
you don't think that I think abortion is an easy decision, even though it's the best and 
simplest solution.¡¨ 
¡§Best and simplest for whom?¡¨ 
¡§For me, I know. Sometimes you have to look out for yourself. When I left my job 
and ran off to New York to be with Nicolae, I thought I was finally doing something 
for Hattie. Now I don't like what I did for Hattie, so I need to do something else for 
Hattie. Understand?¡¨ 
Rayford had nodded. He understood all too well. He had to remind himself that she 
was not a believer. She would not be thinking about the good of anyone but herself. 
Why should she? ¡§Hattie, just humor me for a moment and assume that that 
pregnancy, that 'it' you're carrying, is already a child. It's your child. Perhaps you 
don't like its father. Perhaps you'd hate to see what kind of a person its father might 
produce. But that baby is your blood relative too. You already have maternal 
feelings, or you wouldn't be in such turmoil about this. My question is, who's 
looking out for that child's best interest? Let's say a wrong has been done. Let's say 
it was immoral for you to live with Nicolae Carpathia outside of marriage. Let's say 
this pregnancy, this child, was produced from an immoral union. Let's go farther. 
Let's say that those people are right who consider Nicolae Carpathia the Antichrist. 
I'll even buy the argument that perhaps you regret the idea of having a child at all 
and would not be the best mother for it. I don't think you can shirk responsibility for 
it the way a rape or incest victim might be justified in doing. 
¡§But even in those cases, the solution isn't to kill the innocent party, is it? 
Something is wrong, really wrong, and so people defend their right to choose. What 
they choose, of course, is not just the end of a pregnancy, not just an abortion, it's 
the death of a person. But which person? One of the people who made a mistake? 
One of the people who committed a rape or incest? Or one of the people who got 
pregnant out of wedlock? No, the solution is always to kill the most innocent party 
of all.¡¨ 

Rayford had gone too far, and he had known it. He had glanced up at Hattie holding 
her hands over her ears, tears streaming down her face. He had touched her arm, and 
she had wrenched away. He had leaned further and grabbed her elbow. ¡§Hattie, 
please don't pull away from me. Please don't think I said any of that to hurt you 
personally. Just chalk it up to somebody standing up for the rights of someone who 
can't defend him¡X or herself. If you won't stand up for your own child, somebody 
has to.¡¨ 
With that, she had wrenched fully away from him and had buried her face in her 
hands and wept. Rayford had been angry with himself. Why couldn't he learn? How 
could he sit there spouting all that? He believed it, and he was convinced it was 
God's view. It made sense to him. But he also knew she could reject it out of hand 
simply because he was a man. How could he understand? No one was suggesting 
what he could or could not do with his own body. He had wanted to tell her he 
understood that, but again, what if that unborn child was a female? Who was 
standing up for the rights of that woman's body? 
Hattie had not spoken to him for hours. He knew he deserved that. But, he 
wondered, how much time is there to be diplomatic? He had no idea what her plans 
were. He could only plead with her when he had the chance. ¡§Hattie,¡¨ he had said. 
She hadn't looked at him. ¡§Hattie, please let me just express one more thing to you.¡¨ 
She had turned slightly, not looking fully at him, but he had the impression she 
would at least listen. 
¡§I want you to forgive me for anything I said that hurt you personally or insulted 
you. I hope you know me well enough by now to know that I would not do that 
intentionally. More important, I want you to know that I am one of a few friends 
you have in the Chicago area who loves you and wants only the best for you. I wish 
you'd think about stopping in and seeing us in Mt. Prospect on your way back. Even 
if I'm not there, even if I have to go on back to New Babylon before you, stop in and 
see Chloe and Buck. Talk to Amanda. Would you do that?¡¨ 
Now she had looked at him. She had pressed her lips together and shook her head 
apologetically. ¡§Probably not. I appreciate your sentiments, and I accept your 
apology. But no, probably not.¡¨ 
And that's the way it had been left. Rayford was angry with himself. His motives 
were pure, and he believed his logic was right. But maybe he had counted too much 
on his own personality and style and not enough on God himself to work in Hattie's 
heart. All he could do now was pray for her. 
When the plane finally stopped at the gate, Rayford helped Hattie pull her bag from 
the overhead rack. She thanked him. He didn't trust himself to say anything more. 
He had apologized enough. 
Hattie wiped her face one more time and said, ¡§Rayford, I know you mean well. But 
you drive me nuts sometimes. I should be glad nothing ever really developed 
between us.¡¨ 

¡§Thanks a lot,¡¨ Rayford said, feigning insult. 
¡§I'm serious,¡¨ she said. ¡§You know what I mean. We're just too far apart in age or 
something, I guess.¡¨ 
¡§I guess,¡¨ Rayford said. So, that was how she summarized it. Fine. That wasn't the 
issue at all, of course. He may not have handled it the best way, but he knew trying 
to fix it now would accomplish nothing. 
As they emerged from the gateway, he saw Amanda's welcome smile. He rushed to 
her, and she held him tight. She kissed him passionately but pulled away quickly. ¡§I 
didn't mean to ignore you, Hattie, but frankly I was more eager to see Rayford.¡¨ 
¡§I understand,¡¨ Hattie said flatly, shaking hands and looking away. 
¡§Can we drop you somewhere?¡¨ Amanda said. 
Hattie chuckled. ¡§Well, my bags are checked through to Denver. Can you drop me 
there?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I knew that!¡¨ Amanda said. ¡§Can we walk you to your gate?¡¨ 
¡§No, I'll be fine. I know this airport. I've got a little layover here, and I'm just gonna 
try to relax.¡¨ 
Rayford and Amanda said their good-byes to Hattie, and she was cordial enough, 
but as they walked away, she caught Rayford's eye. She pursed her lips and shook 
her head. He felt miserable. 
Rayford and Amanda walked hand-in-hand, then arm-in-arm, then arms around 
each other's waist, all the way to the escalators that led down to baggage claim. 
Amanda hesitated and pulled Rayford back from the moving stairway. Something 
on a TV monitor had caught her eye. ¡§Ray,¡¨ she said, ¡§come look at this.¡¨ 
They stood watching as a CNN/GNN report summarized the extent of the damage 
from the war around the world. Already, Carpathia was putting his spin on it. The 
announcer said, ¡§World health care experts predict the death toll will rise to more 
than 20 percent internationally. Global Community Potentate Nicolae Carpathia has 
announced formation of an international health care organization that will take 
precedence over all local and regional efforts. He and his ten global ambassadors 
released a statement from their private, high-level meetings in New Babylon 
outlining a proposal for strict measures regulating the health and welfare of the 
entire global community. We have a reaction now from renowned cardiovascular 
surgeon Samuel Kline of Norway.¡¨ 
Rayford whispered, ¡§This guy is in Carpathia's back pocket. I've seen him around. 
He says whatever Saint Nick wants him to say.¡¨ 
The doctor was saying, ¡§The International Red Cross and the World Health 
Organization, as wonderful and effective as they have been in the past, are not 
equipped to handle devastation, disease, and death on this scale. Potentate 
Carpathia's visionary plan is not only our only hope for survival in the midst of 

coming famine and plagues, but also it seems to me¡Xat first glance¡Xa blueprint 
for the most aggressive international health care agenda ever. Should the death toll 
reach as high as 25 percent due to contaminated water and air, food shortages, and 
the like, as some have predicted, new directives that govern life from the womb to 
the tomb can bring this planet from the brink of death to a Utopian state as regards 
physical health.¡¨ 
Rayford and Amanda turned toward the escalator, Rayford shaking his head. ¡§In 
other words, Carpathia clears away the bodies he has blown to bits or starved or 
allowed to become diseased by plagues because of his war, and the rest of us lucky 
subjects will be healthier and more prosperous than ever.¡¨ 
Amanda looked at him. ¡§Spoken like a true, loyal, employee,¡¨ she said. He wrapped 
his arms around her and kissed her. They stumbled and nearly tumbled when the 
escalator reached the bottom. 
Buck embraced his new father-in-law and old friend like the brother he was. He 
considered it a tremendous honor to introduce Tsion Ben-Judah to Rayford and to 
watch them get acquainted. The Tribulation Force was together once more, bringing 
each other up-to-date and trying to plan for a future that had never seemed less 
certain. 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN 
RAYFORD forced himself to stay up until a normal bedtime Saturday night. He, 
Buck, and Tsion went over and over Bruce's material. More than once Rayford was 
moved to tears. ¡§I'm not sure I'm up to this,¡¨ he said. 
Tsion spoke softly. ¡§You are.¡¨ 
¡§What would you have done had I been unable to get back?¡¨ 
Buck said, ¡§I don't know, but I can't risk speaking in public. And certainly Tsion 
can't.¡¨ 
Rayford asked what they were going to do about Tsion. ¡§He can't stay here long, 
can he?¡¨ he said. 
¡§No,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§It won't be long before it gets back to Global Community brass 
that I was involved in his escape. In fact, it wouldn't surprise me if Carpathia 
already knows.¡¨ 
They decided amongst themselves that Tsion should be able to come to New Hope 
Sunday morning, possibly with Loretta, as a guest who appeared to be an old friend. 
There was enough difference in their ages that, except for his Middle Eastern look, 
he might appear to be a son or a nephew. ¡§But I wouldn't risk his exposure any 
further than that,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§If the shelter is ready, we need to sneak him in 

there before the end of the day tomorrow.¡¨ 
Late in the evening a bleary-eyed Rayford called a meeting of the Tribulation Force, 
asking Tsion Ben-Judah to wait in another room. Rayford, Amanda, Buck, and 
Chloe sat around the dining room table, Bruce's pages piled high before them. ¡§I 
suppose it falls to me,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§as the senior member of this little band of 
freedom fighters, to call to order the first meeting after the loss of our leader.¡¨ 
Amanda shyly raised her hand. ¡§Excuse me, but I believe I am the senior member, if 
you're talking age.¡¨ 
Rayford smiled. There was precious little levity anymore, and he appreciated her 
feeble attempts. ¡§I know you're the oldest, hon,¡¨ he said, ¡§but I've been a believer 
longer. Probably by a week or so.¡¨ 
¡§Fair enough,¡¨ she said. 
¡§The only order of business tonight is voting in a new member. I think it's obvious 
to all of us that God has provided a new leader and mentor in Dr. Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
Chloe spoke up. ¡§We're asking an awful lot of him, aren't we? Are we sure he wants 
to live in this country? In this city?¡¨ 
¡§Where else could he go?¡¨ Buck asked. ¡§I mean, it's only fair to ask him rather than 
to make assumptions, I guess, but his options are limited.¡¨ 
Buck told the others about the new phones, the coming computers, how Bruce had 
outfitted the shelter for phone and computer broadcasting, and how Donny Moore 
was designing a system that would be interception-and trace-proof. 
Rayford thought everyone seemed encouraged. He finalized preparations for the 
memorial service the next morning and said he planned to be unabashedly 
evangelistic. They prayed for the confidence, peace, and blessing of God on their 
decision to include Tsion in the Tribulation Force. Rayford invited him into the 
meeting. 
¡§Tsion, my brother, we would like to ask you to join our little core group of 
believers. We know you have been deeply wounded and may be in pain for a long, 
long time. We're not asking for an immediate decision. As you can imagine, we 
need you not to just be one of us, but also to be our leader, in essence, our pastor. 
We recognize that the day may come when we might all be living with you in the 
secret shelter. Meanwhile, we will try to maintain as normal lives as possible, trying 
to survive and spread the good news of Christ to others until his Glorious 
Appearing.¡¨ 
Tsion rose at one end of the table and placed both hands atop it. Buck, who so 
recently had thought Tsion looked younger than his forty-six years, now saw him 
weary and spent, grief etching his face. His words came slowly, haltingly, through 
quivering lips. 
¡§My dear brothers and sisters in Christ,¡¨ he said in his thick, Israeli accent, ¡§I am 

deeply honored and moved. I am grateful to God for his provision and blessing to 
me in bringing young Cameron to find me and save my life. We must pray for our 
brothers, Michael and his three friends, whom I believe are among the 144,000 
witnesses God is raising up around the world from the tribes of Israel. We must also 
pray for our brother Anis, whom Cameron has told you about. He was used of God 
to deliver us. I know nothing more about him, except that should it come out that he 
could have detained me, he too may be a martyr before we know it. 
¡§Devastated as I am over my own personal loss, I see the clear hand of God 
Almighty in guiding my steps. It was as if my blessed homeland were a saltshaker 
in his hand, and he upended it and shook me out across the desert and into the air. I 
landed right where he wants me. Where else can I go? 
¡§I need no time to think about it. I have already prayed about it. I am where God 
wants me to be, and I will be here for as long as he wishes. I do not like to live in 
hiding, but neither am I a reckless man. I will gratefully accept your offer of shelter 
and provisions, and I look forward to all the Bible software Cameron has promised 
to put on the new computer. If you and your technical adviser, young Mr. Moore, 
can devise a way to multiply my ministry, I would be thankful. Clearly, my days of 
international travel and speaking are over. I look forward to sitting with fellow 
believers in your church tomorrow morning and hearing more about your wonderful 
mentor, my predecessor, Bruce Barnes. 
¡§I cannot and will not promise to replace him in your hearts. Who can replace one's 
spiritual father? But as God has blessed me with a mind that understands many 
languages, with a heart that seeks after him and always has, and with the truth he 
has imparted to me and which I discovered and accepted and received only a little 
too late, I will dedicate the rest of my life to sharing with you and anyone else who 
will hear it the Good News of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the Savior, 
my Messiah, and my Savior.¡¨ 
Tsion seemed to collapse into his chair, and, as one, Rayford and the rest of the 
Tribulation Force turned and knelt before theirs. 
Buck felt the presence of God as clearly as he had during his escapade in Israel and 
Egypt. He realized his God was not limited by space and time. Later, when he and 
Chloe went up to bed, leaving Rayford alone in the dining room to put the final 
touches on his memorial service message, they prayed that Verna Zee would follow 
through on her promise to attend. 
¡§She's the key,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Chloe, if she gets spooked and says anything to 
anybody about me, our lives will never be the same.¡¨ 
¡§Buck, our lives haven't been the same from one day to the next for almost two 
years.¡¨ 
Buck gathered her in, and she nestled against his chest. Buck felt her relax and 
heard her deep, even breathing as she fell asleep minutes later. He lay awake 
another hour, staring at the ceiling. 

Buck awoke at eight in an empty bed. He smelled breakfast. Loretta would have 
already been at church. He knew Chloe and Amanda had bonded and frequently 
worked together, but he was surprised to find Tsion also putzing around in the 
kitchen. ¡§We will add a little Middle Eastern flavor to our morning repast, no?¡¨ he 
asked. 
¡§Sounds good to me, brother,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Loretta will be back to pick you up at 
about nine. Amanda, Chloe, and I will head over as soon as we're finished with 
breakfast.¡¨ 
Buck knew there would be a crowd that morning, but he didn't expect the parking 
lots to be full and the streets lined with cars for blocks. If Loretta hadn't had a 
reserved spot, she might have done better to leave her car at home and walk to the 
church with Tsion. As it was, she told Buck later, she had to wave someone out of 
her spot when she got back with him. 
It didn't make sense for Tsion to be seen with Buck at church. Buck sat with Chloe 
and Amanda. Loretta sat near the back with Tsion. Loretta, Buck, Chloe, and 
Amanda kept an eye out for Verna. 
Rayford would not have known Verna if she was standing in front of him. He was 
occupied with his own thoughts and responsibilities that morning. Fifty minutes 
before the service he signaled the funeral director to move the casket into the 
sanctuary and open it. 
Rayford was in Bruce's office when the funeral director hurried back to him. ¡§Sir, 
are you sure you still want me to do that? The sanctuary is full to overflowing 
already.¡¨ 
Rayford didn't doubt him but followed him to look for himself. He peeked through 
the platform door. It would have been inappropriate to open the casket in front of all 
those people. Had Bruce's body been on display, waiting for them when they 
arrived, that would have been one thing. ¡§Just wheel the closed coffin out there,¡¨ 
Rayford said. ¡§We'll schedule a viewing later.¡¨ 
As Rayford headed back to the office, he and the funeral director came upon the 
casket and the attendants in an otherwise empty corridor that led to the platform. 
Rayford was overcome with a sudden urge. ¡§Could you open it just for me, 
briefly?¡¨ 
¡§Certainly, sir, if you would avert your eyes a moment.¡¨ 
Rayford turned his back and heard the lid open and the movement of material. 
¡§All right, sir,¡¨ the director said. 
Bruce looked less alive and even more like the shell Rayford knew this body to be 
than he had under the shroud outside the demolished hospital where Rayford had 
found him. Whether it was the lighting, the passage of time, or his own grief and 

fatigue, Rayford did not know. This, he knew, was merely the earthly house of his 
dear friend. Bruce was gone. The likeness that lay here was just a reflection of the 
man he once was. Rayford thanked the director and headed back to the office. 
He was glad he had taken that last look. It wasn't that he needed closure, as so many 
said of such a viewing. He had simply feared that the shock of Bruce appearing so 
lifeless at a corporate viewing might render him speechless. But it didn't now. He 
was nervous, yet he felt more confidence than ever about representing Bruce and 
representing God to these people. 
The lump in Buck's throat began the moment he entered the sanctuary and saw the 
crowd. The number didn't surprise him, but how early they had assembled did. Also, 
there was not the usual murmuring as at a normal Sunday morning service. No one 
here seemed even to whisper. The silence was eerie, and anyone could have 
interpreted it as a tribute to Bruce. People wept, but no one sobbed. At least not yet. 
They simply sat, most with heads bowed, some reading the brief program that 
included Bruce's vital statistics. Buck was amazed by the verse someone, probably 
Loretta, ran-along the bottom of the back page of the program. It read simply, ¡§I 
know that my Redeemer lives.¡¨ 
Buck felt Chloe shudder and knew she was near tears. He put his arm around her 
shoulder and his hand brushed Amanda just beyond her. Amanda turned, and Buck 
saw her tears. He put a hand on her shoulder, and there they sat in their silent grief. 
At precisely ten o'clock, just the way (Buck thought) a pilot would do it, Rayford 
and one other elder emerged from the door at the side of the platform. Rayford sat 
while the other man stepped to the pulpit and motioned that all should rise. He led 
the congregation in two hymns sung so slowly and quietly and with such meaning 
that Buck could barely get the words out. When the songs had concluded, the elder 
said, ¡§That is the extent of our preliminary service. There will be no offering today. 
There will be no announcements today. All meetings will resume next Sunday, as 
scheduled. This memorial service is in memory of our dear departed pastor, Bruce 
Barnes.¡¨ 
He proceeded to tell when and where Bruce was born and when and where he died. 
¡§He was preceded by his wife, a daughter, and two sons, who were raptured with 
the church. Our speaker this morning is Elder Rayford Steele, a member of this 
congregation since just after the Rapture. He was a friend and confidant of Bruce. 
He will deliver the eulogy and a brief message. You may come back at 4:00 P.M. 
for a viewing if you wish.¡¨ 
Rayford felt as if he were floating in another dimension. He had heard his name and 
knew well what they were about that morning. Was this a mental defense 
mechanism? Was God allowing him to set aside his grief and his emotions so he 
could speak clearly? That was all he could imagine. Were his emotions to overcome 
him, there would be no way he could speak. 

He thanked the other elder and opened his notes. ¡§Members and friends of New 
Hope Village Church,¡¨ he began, ¡§and relatives and friends of Bruce Barnes, I greet 
you today in the matchless name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. 
¡§If there is one thing I have learned out there in the world, it is that a speaker should 
never apologize for himself. Allow me to break that rule first and get it out of the 
way, because I know that despite how close Bruce and I were, this is not about me. 
In fact, Bruce would tell you, it's not about him either. It's about Jesus. 
¡§I need to tell you that I'm up here this morning not as an elder, not as a parishioner, 
and certainly not as a preacher. Speaking is not my gift. No one has even suggested 
that I might replace Bruce here. I am here because I loved him and because in many 
ways¡Xprimarily because he left a treasure trove of notes behind¡XI am able in a 
small way to speak for him.¡¨ 
Buck held Chloe close, as much for his own comfort as for hers. He felt for 
Rayford. This had to be so hard. He was impressed with Rayford's ability to be 
articulate in this situation. He himself would have been blubbering, he knew. 
Rayford was saying, ¡§I want to tell you how I first met Bruce, because I know that 
many of you met him in much the same way. We were at the point of the greatest 
need in our lives, and Bruce had beat us to it by only a few hours.¡¨ 
Buck heard the story he had heard so many times before, of Rayford's having been 
warned by his wife that the Rapture was coming. When he and Chloe had been left 
behind and Irene and Raymie had been taken, at the end of himself he had sought 
out the church where she had heard the message. Bruce Barnes had been the only 
person left on the staff, and Bruce knew exactly why. He became, in an instant, an 
unabashed convert and evangelist. Bruce had pleaded with Rayford and Chloe to 
hear his own testimony of losing his wife and three young children in the middle of 
the night. Rayford had been ready. Chloe had been skeptical. It would be a while 
before she came around. 
Bruce had provided them with a copy of a videotape his senior pastor had left 
behind for just this purpose. Rayford had been amazed that the pastor could have 
known in advance what he would be going through. He had explained from the 
Bible that all this had been predicted and then had been careful to explain the way 
of salvation. Rayford now took the time, as he had on so many occasions in Sunday 
school classes and testimony meetings, to go through that same simple plan. 
Buck never ceased to be moved by what Bruce had always called ¡§the old, old 
story.¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§This has been the most misunderstood message of the ages. 
Had you asked people on the street five minutes before the Rapture what Christians 
taught about God and heaven, nine in ten would have told you that the church 
expected them to live a good life, to do the best they could, to think of others, to be 
kind, to live in peace. It sounded so good, and yet it was so wrong. How far from 
the mark! 
¡§The Bible is clear that all our righteousnesses are like filthy rags. There is none 

righteous, no not one. We have turned, every one, to his own way. All have sinned 
and fall short of the glory of God. In the economy of God, we are all worthy only of 
the punishment of death. 
¡§I would be remiss and would fail you most miserably if we got to the end of a 
memorial service for a man with the evangelistic heart of Bruce Barnes and did not 
tell you what he told me and everyone else he came in contact with during the last 
nearly two years of his life on this earth. Jesus has already paid the penalty. The 
work has been done. Are we to live good lives? Are we to do the best we can? Are 
we to think of others and live in peace? Of course! But to earn our salvation? 
Scripture is clear that we are saved by grace through faith, and that not of ourselves; 
not of works, lest anyone should boast. We live our lives in as righteous a manner 
as we can in thankful response to that priceless gift of God, our salvation, freely 
paid for on the cross by Christ himself. 
¡§That is what Bruce Barnes would tell you this morning, were he still housed in the 
shell that lies in the box before you. Anyone who knew him knows that this 
message became his life. He was devastated at the loss of his family and in grief 
over the sin in his life and his ultimate failure to have made the transaction with 
God he knew was necessary to assure him of eternal life. 
¡§But he did not wallow in self-pity. He quickly became a student of the Scriptures 
and a teller of the Good News. This pulpit could not contain him. He started house 
churches all over America and then began speaking throughout the world. Yes, he 
was usually here on Sundays, because he believed his flock was his primary 
responsibility. But you and I, all of us, let him travel because we knew that here was 
a man of whom the world was not worthy.¡¨ 
Buck watched closely as Rayford stopped speaking. He stepped to the side of the 
pulpit and gestured at the coffin. ¡§And now,¡¨ he said, ¡§if I can get through this, I 
would like to speak directly to Bruce. You all know that the body is dead. It cannot 
hear. But Bruce,¡¨ he said, raising his eyes, ¡§we thank you. We envy you. We know 
you are with Christ, which Paul the apostle says is 'far better.' 
¡§We confess we don't like this. It hurts. We miss you. But in your memory we 
pledge to carry on, to stay at the task, to keep on keeping on against all odds. We 
will study the materials you have left behind, and we will keep this church the 
lighthouse you made it for the glory of God.¡¨ 
Rayford stepped back into the pulpit, feeling drained. But he was not half done. ¡§I 
would also be remiss if I did not try to share with you at least the core thoughts 
from the sermon Bruce had prepared for today. It is an important one, one none of 
us in leadership here would want you to have missed. I can tell you I have been over 
it many times, and it blesses me each time. But before I do that, I feel compelled to 
open the floor to anyone else who feels led to say anything in memory of our dear 
brother.¡¨ 
Rayford took one step back from the microphone and waited. For a few seconds he 

wondered if he had caught everyone off guard. No one moved. Finally, Loretta 
stood. 
¡§Y'all know me here,¡¨ she said. ¡§I've been Bruce's secretary since the day 
everybody else disappeared. If you'll pray I can maintain my composure, I have just 
a few things to say about Pastor Barnes.¡¨ 
Loretta told her now-familiar story, of how she was the only one of more than a 
hundred blood relatives who was left behind at the Rapture. ¡§There are only a dozen 
or so of us in this room who were members of this church before that day,¡¨ she said. 
¡§We all know who we are, and grateful as we are to have finally found the truth, we 
live in regret for all the wasted years.¡¨ 
Buck, Chloe, and Amanda turned in their pew to hear Loretta better. Buck noticed 
tissues and handkerchiefs all over the sanctuary. Loretta finished with this: ¡§Brother 
Barnes was a very bright man who had made a very huge mistake. As soon as he got 
right with the Lord and committed himself to serve him for the rest of his days, he 
became pastor to the rest of us. I can't tell you the countless numbers that he 
personally led to Christ. But I can tell you this: He was never condescending never 
judgmental, never short-tempered with anyone. He was earnest and compassionate, 
and he loved people into the kingdom. Oh, he never was polite to the point where he 
wouldn't tell people exactly how it was. There are enough people in here who can 
attest to that. But winnin' people to Christ was his main, whole, and only goal. I just 
pray that if there's anybody here who is still wonderin' or holdin' out, that you'll 
realize maybe you're the reason that we'll always be able to say that Bruce did not 
die in vain. His passion for souls continues beyond the grave.¡¨ And Loretta broke 
down. She sat. The stranger next to her, the dark-complected man known only to 
her and the Tribulation Force, gently put his arm around her. 
Rayford stood listening as people from all over the sanctuary stood and testified to 
the impact Bruce Barnes had had on their lives. It went on and on and on for more 
than an hour. Finally, when there seemed to be a lull, Rayford said, ¡§I hate to 
arbitrarily end this, but if there is anyone else, let me ask you to stand quickly. After 
one more, I'll then allow any who need to leave to do so. Staying for my summary 
of what would have been Bruce's sermon this morning is optional.¡¨ 
Tsion Ben-Judah stood. ¡§You do not know me,¡¨ he said. ¡§I represent the 
international community where your pastor toiled so long and so earnestly and so 
effectively. Many, many Christian leaders around the globe knew him, sat under his 
ministry, and were brought closer to Christ because of him. My prayer for you is 
that you would continue his ministry and his memory, that you would, as the 
Scriptures say, 'not grow weary in doing good.'¡¨ 
Rayford announced, ¡§Stand if you would. Stretch, embrace a friend, greet 
someone.¡¨ People stood and stretched and shook hands and embraced, but few said 
anything. Rayford said, ¡§While you are standing I would like to excuse any who are 
overcome, hungry, restless, or for any other reason need to leave. We are long past 

our normal closing time. We will tape the rest of this service for any who have to 
leave. I will be summarizing Bruce's message for this morning, apologizing in 
advance for reading some of it to you. I am not the preacher he was, so bear with 
me. We'll take a couple of minutes' break now, so feel free to leave if you need to.¡¨ 
Rayford backed away from the pulpit and sat. En masse, the congregation sat back 
down and looked expectantly at him. When it was clear no one was leaving, 
someone giggled, then another, and a few more. Rayford smiled and shrugged and 
returned to the pulpit. 
¡§I guess there are things more important in this life than personal comfort, aren't 
there?¡¨ he said. A few amens resounded. Rayford opened his Bible and Bruce's 
notes. 
Buck knew what was coming. He had been over the material nearly as many times 
as Rayford had and had helped condense it. Still, he was excited. People would be 
inspired by what Bruce believed had happened, what he predicted would happen, 
and what was yet to come. Rayford began by explaining, ¡§As best we have been 
able to determine, these sermon notes were written onboard an aircraft while Bruce 
was returning from Indonesia last week. The name of the file is 'Sermon' with 
today's date, and what he has here is a rough outline and a lot of commentary. 
Occasionally he lapses into personal notations, some of which I feel free to share 
with you now that he is gone, others that I feel compelled to keep from you now 
that he is gone. 
¡§For instance, shortly after outlining where he wants to go with this message, he 
notes, 'I was ill all night last night and feel not much better today. I was warned 
about viruses, despite all my shots. I can't complain. I have traveled extensively 
without problem. God has been with me. Of course, he is with me now, too, but I 
fear dehydration. If I'm not better upon my return, I'll get checked out.' 
¡§So,¡¨ Rayford added, ¡§we get a glimpse of the ailment that brought him low and 
which led to his collapse at the church upon his return. As most of you know, he 
was rushed to the hospital, where it is our belief that he died from this ailment and 
not from the blast. 
¡§Bruce has outlined a message here that he believed was particularly urgent, 
because, as he writes, 'I have become convinced we are at the end of the eighteenmonth 
period of peace, which follows the agreement the Antichrist has made with 
Israel. If I am right, and we can set the beginning of the Tribulation at the time of 
the signing of the treaty between the nation of Israel and what was then known as 
the United Nations, we are perilously close to and must prepare for the next 
ominous and dire prediction in the Tribulation timeline: The Red Horse of the 
Apocalypse. Revelation 6:3-4 indicates that it was granted to the one who sat on it 
to take peace from the earth, and that people should kill one another; and there was 
given to him a great sword. In my mind, this is a prediction of global war. It will 
likely become known as World War III. It will be instigated by the Antichrist, and 

yet he will rise as the great solver of it, the great peacemaker, as he is the great 
deceiving liar. ' 
¡§'This will immediately usher in the next two horses of the apocalypse, the black 
horse of plague and famine, and the pale horse of death. These will be nearly 
simultaneous¡Xit should not surprise any of us to know that global war would result 
in famine, plague, and death.' 
¡§Do any of you find this as astounding as I did when I first read it?¡¨ Rayford asked. 
All over the sanctuary, people nodded. ¡§I remind you that this was written by a man 
who died either just before or just after the first bomb was volleyed in the global 
war we find ourselves in. He didn't know precisely when it would occur, but he 
didn't want to let one more Sunday pass without sharing this message with you. I 
don't know about you, but I'm inclined to heed the words of one who interprets the 
prophecy of Scripture so accurately. Here's what Bruce, in his own notes, says is yet 
to come: 
¡§'The time is short now for everyone. Revelation 6:7-8 says the rider of the pale 
horse is Death and that Hades follows after him. Power was given to them over a 
fourth of the earth, to kill with sword, with hunger, with death, and by the beasts of 
the earth. I confess I don't know what the Scripture is referring to when it says the 
beasts of the earth, but perhaps these are animals that devour people when they are 
left without protection due to the war. Perhaps a great beast of the earth is some 
symbolic metaphor for the weapons employed by the Antichrist and his enemies. 
Regardless, in short order one-fourth of the world's population will be wiped out.' 
¡§Bruce continues: 'I shared this with three close compatriots not long ago, and asked 
them to consider that there were four of us in the room. Was it possible that one of 
us would be gone in due time? Of course it was. Might I lose a fourth of my 
congregation? I pray my church will be spared, but I have so many congregations 
now around the world, it is impossible to imagine that all could be spared. Of the 
quarter of the earth's population that will perish, surely many, many of these will be 
tribulation saints. ' 
¡§'Given the level of modern technology, global war will take little time at all to 
wreak its havoc and devastation. These three last horsemen of the apocalypse will 
gallop one right after the other. If people were horrified by the painless, bloodless, 
disappearance of the saints at the Rapture, which resulted in enough chaos of its 
own because of crashes and fires and suicides, imagine the desperation of a world 
ripped to shreds by global war, famine, plague, and death.'¡¨ 
Rayford looked up from Bruce's notes. ¡§My wife and I watched the news yesterday 
at the airport,¡¨ he said, ¡§as I'm sure many of you watched wherever you were, and 
we saw these very things reported from all around the world. Only the greatest 
skeptic would accuse us of having written this after the fact. But let's say that you're 
skeptical. Let's say you believe we are charlatans. Who then wrote the Bible? And 
when was it written? Forget Bruce Barnes and his present-day predictions, a week 

before the fact. Consider these prophecies made thousands of years ago. You can 
imagine the pain it brought Bruce to have to prepare this sermon. In a side note he 
writes, 'I hate preaching bad news. My problem in the past was that I always hated 
hearing bad news too. I shut it out. I didn't listen. It was there if I merely had ears to 
hear. I must share more bad news in this message, and though it grieves me, I 
cannot shirk the responsibility.' 
¡§You'll note Bruce's turmoil here,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§Because I'm the one who has to 
deliver this, I empathize totally with where he was. The next part of his outline 
indicates that the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, once they have visited their 
judgments on the earth, represent the first four of the seven Seal Judgments that 
Revelation 6:1-16 indicates will occur during the first twenty-one months of the 
Tribulation. According to Bruce's calculations, using as a reference point the treaty 
signed between Israel and the United Nations, which we now know as the Global 
Community, we are closing in on the end of that twenty-one-month period. 
Therefore, it behooves us to understand clearly the fifth, sixth, and seventh Seal 
Judgments predicted in Revelation. As you know from what Bruce has taught 
before, there are yet to come two more seven-part judgments that will carry us 
through to the end of the seven-year Tribulation and the glorious appearing of 
Christ. The next seven will be the Trumpet Judgments, and the seven following that 
will be the Vial Judgments. Whoever becomes your pastor-teacher will, I'm sure, 
carefully walk you through those as the time draws near. Meanwhile, let me, with 
Bruce's notes and commentary, make us all aware of what we have to look forward 
to just within the next few weeks.¡¨ 
Rayford was exhausted, but worse than that, he had gone over and over in his mind 
what he was about to share. It was not good news. He felt weak. He was hungry. He 
was enough in tune with his body to know he needed sugar. ¡§I'm going to ask for 
just a five-minute break. I know many of you may need to use the facilities. I need 
to get a drink. We'll meet back here at precisely one o'clock.¡¨ 
He left the platform, and Amanda made a beeline for the side door, meeting him in 
the corridor. ¡§What do you need?¡¨ she asked. 
¡§Besides prayer?¡¨ 
¡§I've been praying for you all morning,¡¨ she said. ¡§You know that. What do you 
want? Some orange juice?¡¨ 
¡§You make me sound like a diabetic.¡¨ 
¡§I just know what I would need if I'd been standing up there that long between 
meals.¡¨ 
¡§Juice sounds great,¡¨ he said. While she hurried off, Buck joined Rayford in the 
hallway. 
¡§Do you think they're ready for what's to come?¡¨ Buck asked. 
¡§Frankly, I think Bruce has been trying to tell them this for months. There's nothing 

like today's newscasts to convince you your pastor is right.¡¨ 
Buck assured Rayford he would continue praying for him. When he returned to his 
seat, he found that, again, it appeared not one person had left. It didn't surprise Buck 
that Rayford was back in the pulpit exactly when he said he would be. 
¡§I won't keep you much longer,¡¨ he said. ¡§But I'm sure you all agree that this is lifeand-
death stuff. From Bruce's notes and teaching we learn that Revelation 6:9-11 
points out that the fifth of the seven Seal Judgments concerns tribulation martyrs. 
The Scripture says, 'I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for 
the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud 
voice, saying, ¡§How long, O Lord, holy and true, until You judge and avenge our 
blood on those who dwell on the earth?¡¨ Then a white robe was given to each of 
them; and it was said to them that they should rest a little while longer, until both 
the number of their fellow servants and their brethren, who would be killed as they 
were, was completed.' 
¡§In other words,¡¨ Rayford continued, ¡§many of those who have died in this world 
war, and are yet to die until a quarter of the world's population is gone, are 
considered tribulation martyrs. I put Bruce in this category. While he may not have 
died specifically for preaching the gospel or while preaching the gospel, clearly it 
was his life's work and it resulted in his death. I envision Bruce under the altar with 
the souls of those slain for the word of God and for the testimony they held. He will 
be given a white robe and told to rest a while longer until even more martyrs are 
added to the total. I must ask you today, are you prepared? Are you willing? Would 
you give your life for the sake of the gospel?¡¨ 
Rayford paused to take a breath and was startled when someone cried out, ¡§I will!¡¨ 
Rayford didn't know what to say. Suddenly, from another part of the sanctuary: ¡§So 
will I!¡¨ 
Three or four others said the same in unison. Rayford choked back tears. It had been 
a rhetorical question. He had not expected an answer. How moving! How inspiring! 
He felt led not to let others follow based on emotion alone. He continued, his voice 
thick, ¡§Thank you, brothers and sisters. I fear we may all be called upon to express 
our willingness to die for the cause. Praise God you are willing. Bruce's notes 
indicate that he believed these judgments are chronological. If the Four Horsemen 
of the Apocalypse lead to the white-robed tribulation martyrs under the altar in 
heaven, that could be happening even as we speak. And if it is, we need to know 
what the sixth seal is. Bruce felt so strongly about this Seal Judgment that on his 
computer he cut and pasted right here into his notes several different translations 
and versions of Revelation 6:12-17. Let me just read you the one he marked as the 
most stark and easily understood: 
¡§ 'I looked when He'¡Xand you'll recall that the he mentioned here is the Lamb, who 
is described in verse fourteen of the previous chapter as 'Him who lives forever and 
ever,' who is, of course, Jesus Christ himself¡X'He opened the sixth seal, and 

behold, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, 
and the moon became like blood. And the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as a fig 
tree drops its late figs when it is shaken by a mighty wind. Then the sky receded as 
a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of its 
place. And the kings of the earth, the great men, the rich men, the commanders, the 
mighty men, every slave and every free man, hid themselves in the caves and in the 
rocks of the mountains, and said to the mountains and rocks, ¡¨Fall on us and hide us 
from the face of Him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb! For 
the great day of His wrath has come, and who is able to stand?¡§'¡¨ 
Rayford looked up and scanned the sanctuary. Some stared at him, ashen. Others 
peered intently at their Bibles. ¡§I'm no theologian, people. I'm no scholar. I have had 
as much trouble reading the Bible as any of you throughout my lifetime, and 
especially over the nearly two years since the Rapture. But I ask you, is there 
anything difficult to understand about a passage that begins, 'Behold, there was a 
great earthquake'? Bruce has carefully charted these events, and he believed that the 
first seven seals cover the first twenty-one months of the seven-year tribulation, 
which began at the time of the covenant between Israel and the Antichrist. If you 
happen to be one who doesn't believe the Antichrist has appeared on the scene yet, 
then you don't believe there's an agreement between Israel and that person. If that is 
true, all this is still yet to come. The Tribulation did not begin with the Rapture. It 
begins with the signing of that treaty. 
¡§Bruce taught us that the first four Seal Judgments were represented by the Four 
Horsemen of the Apocalypse. I submit to you that those horsemen are at full gallop. 
The fifth seal, the tribulation martyrs who had been slain for the word of God and 
for the testimony which they held, and whose souls are under the altar, has begun. 
¡§Bruce's commentary indicates that more and more martyrs will be added now. 
Antichrist will come against tribulation saints and the 144,000 witnesses springing 
up all over the world from the tribes of Israel. 
¡§Hear me, from a very practical standpoint. If Bruce is right¡Xand he has been so 
far¡Xwe are close to the end of the first twenty-one months. I believe in God. I 
believe in Christ. I believe the Bible is the Word of God. I believe our dear departed 
brother 'rightly divided the word of truth,' and thus I am preparing to endure what 
this passage calls 'the wrath of the Lamb.' An earthquake is coming, and it is not 
symbolic. This passage indicates that everyone, great or small, would rather be 
crushed to death than to face the one who sits on the throne.¡¨ 
Buck was furiously taking notes. This was not new to him, but he was so moved by 
Rayford's passion and the idea of the earthquake being known as the wrath of the 
Lamb that he knew it had to be publicized to the world. 
Perhaps it would be his swan song, his death knell, but he was going to put in the 
Global Community Weekly that Christians were teaching of the coming ¡§wrath of 
the Lamb.¡¨ It was one thing to predict an earthquake. Armchair scientists and 

clairvoyants had been doing that for years. But there was something about the 
psyche of the current world citizen that caused him or her to become enamored of 
catchphrases. What better catch-phrase than one from the Word of God? 
Buck listened as Rayford concluded: ¡§At the end of this first twenty-one-month 
period, the mysterious seventh Seal Judgment will usher in the next twenty-onemonth 
period, during which we will receive the seven Trumpet Judgments. I say the 
seventh Seal Judgment is mysterious because Scripture is not clear what form it will 
take. All the Bible says is that it is apparently so dramatic that there will be silence 
in heaven for half an hour. Then seven angels, each with a trumpet, prepare 
themselves to sound. We will study those judgments and talk about them as we 
move into that period. However, for now, I believe Bruce has left us with much to 
think and pray about. 
¡§We have loved this man, we have learned from this man, and now we have 
eulogized him. Though we know he is finally with Christ, do not hesitate to grieve 
and mourn. The Bible says we are not to mourn as do the heathen, who have no 
hope, but it does not say we should not mourn at all. Embrace the grief and grieve 
with all your might. But don't let it keep you from the task. What Bruce would have 
wanted above all else is that we stay about the business of bringing every person we 
can into the kingdom before it is too late.¡¨ 
Rayford was exhausted. He closed in prayer, but rather than leaving the platform he 
merely sat and lowered his head. There was not the usual rush for the doors. Most 
continued to sit, while a few slowly and quietly began to make their way out. 
CHAPTER SIXTEEN 
BUCK helped Chloe into the Range Rover, but before he could get around to the 
driver's side, he was accosted by Verna Zee. 
¡§Verna! I didn't see you! I'm glad you made it.¡¨ 
¡§I made it all right, Cameron. I also recognized Tsion Ben-Judah!¡¨ 
Buck fought to keep from covering her mouth with his hand. ¡§I'm sorry?¡¨ 
¡§He's going to be in deep trouble when the Global Community peacekeeping forces 
find out where he is. Don't you know he's wanted all over the world? And that your 
passport and ID were found on one of his accomplices? Buck, you're in as much 
trouble as he is. Steve Plank has been trying to get ahold of you, and I'm tired of 
pretending I have no idea what you're up to.¡¨ 
¡§Verna, we're going to have to go somewhere and talk about this.¡¨ 
¡§I can't keep your secret forever, Buck. I'm not going down with you. That was a 
pretty impressive meeting, and it's obvious everybody loved that Barnes guy. But do 

all these people believe that Nicolae Carpathia is the Antichrist?¡¨ 
¡§I can't speak for everyone.¡¨ 
¡§But how about you, Buck? You report directly to the man. Are you going to write 
a story in one of his own magazines that says that?¡¨ 
¡§I already have, Verna.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, but you've always represented it as a neutral report of what some believe. 
This is your church! These are your people! You buy into all this stuff.¡¨ 
¡§Can we go somewhere and talk about this or not?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I think we'd better. Anyway, I want to interview Tsion Ben-Judah. You can't blame 
me for going for the scoop of a lifetime.¡¨ 
Buck bit his tongue to keep from saying she wasn't enough of a writer to do justice 
to a story like Ben-Judah anyway. ¡§Let me get back to you tomorrow,¡¨ he said. 
¡§And then we can¡X¡¨ 
¡§Tomorrow? Today, Buck. Let's meet at the office this afternoon.¡¨ 
¡§This afternoon is not good. I'm coming back here for the viewing at four.¡¨ 
¡§Then how about six-thirty?¡¨ 
¡§Why does it have to be today?¡¨ Buck asked. 
¡§It doesn't. I could just tell Steve Plank or Carpathia himself or anybody I want 
exactly what I've seen today.¡¨ 
¡§Verna, I took a huge risk in helping you out the other night and letting you stay at 
Loretta's home.¡¨ 
¡§You sure did. And you may regret it for the rest of your life.¡¨ 
¡§So none of what you heard here today made any impact on you?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, it did. It made me wonder why I went soft on you all of a sudden. You people 
are wacko, Buck. I'm gonna need some compelling reason to keep quiet about you.¡¨ 
That sounded like extortion, but Buck also realized that Verna had apparently 
stayed for the entire service that morning. Something had to be working on her. 
Buck wanted to find out how she could relegate the prophecies of Revelation and 
what had happened in the world in the last twenty months or so to mere 
coincidence. ¡§All right,¡¨ he said. ¡§Six-thirty at the office.¡¨ 
Rayford and the other elders had agreed there would be no more formality at the 
viewing. No prayer, no message, no eulogies, no nothing. Just a procession of 
people filing past the coffin and paying their last respects. Someone had suggested 
opening the fellowship hall for refreshments, but Rayford, having been tipped off by 
Buck, decided against it. A ribbon was draped across the stairway, from wall to 
wall, to keep everyone from going downstairs. A sign indicated the viewing would 
last from 4 to 6 P.M. 

At about five, while a crowd of hundreds slowly moved past the casket in a line that 
stretched out the front door, through the parking lot, and down the street, Buck 
wheeled into Loretta's parking spot with the Range Rover full of people. 
¡§Chloe, I promise this is the last time I take advantage of your ailment and use you 
as a decoy.¡¨ 
¡§A decoy for what? Do you think Carpathia is here and is going to grab you or 
Tsion?¡¨ 
Buck chuckled. Rayford had been in the sanctuary since just before four. Now, 
Buck, Chloe, Amanda, Tsion, and Loretta emerged from the Range Rover. Amanda 
got on one side of Chloe and Loretta on the other. They helped her up the back steps 
as Buck opened the door. Buck peeked at the parishioners waiting in line to get into 
the church. Nearly all ignored his little group. Those who idly watched them 
seemed to be concentrating on the pretty young newlywed, her ankle cast, her sling, 
and her cane. 
As the three women made their way to the office, planning to view the body when 
the crowd dissipated, Buck and Tsion slipped away. When Buck entered the office 
about twenty minutes later, Chloe asked, ¡§Where's Tsion?¡¨ 
¡§He's around,¡¨ Buck said. 
Rayford stood near Bruce's coffin, shaking hands with mourners. Donny Moore 
approached. ¡§I'm sorry to bother you with a question right here,¡¨ Donny said, ¡§but 
would you know where I could find Mr. Williams? He ordered some stuff from me, 
and I've got it for him.¡¨ 
Rayford directed him to the office. 
As Donny and dozens of others filed past, Rayford wondered how long Hattie 
Durham would be with her mother in Denver. Carpathia had scheduled a meeting 
with Pontifex Maximus Peter Mathews, who had recently been named Supreme 
Pontiff of Enigma Babylon One World Faith, a conglomeration of all the religions 
in the world. Carpathia wanted Rayford back to New Babylon by the Thursday after 
next to fly the Condor 216 to Rome. There he was to pick up Mathews and bring 
him to New Babylon. Carpathia had made noises about headquartering Mathews 
and One World Faith in New Babylon, along with almost every other internaional 
organization. 
Rayford found himself numb, shaking hand after hand. He tried not to look at 
Bruce's body. He busied himself remembering what else he'd heard Carpathia 
saying through that ingenious reverse intercom bugging device the late Earl 
Halliday had installed in the Condor. Most interesting to Rayford was Carpathia's 
insistence on taking over leadership of several of the groups and committees that 
had been headed by his old friend and financial angel Jonathan Stonagal. Buck had 
told Rayford and the rest of the Tribulation Force that he was in the room when 

Carpathia murdered Stonagal and then brainwashed everyone else to believe they'd 
just witnessed a suicide. With Carpathia now angling his way into the leadership of 
international relations committees, commissions on international harmony, and, 
most important, secret financial cooperatives, his motives for that murder became 
clear. 
Rayford let his mind wander to the good old days, when all he had to do was show 
up at O'Hare on time, fly his routes, and come home. Of course, he was not a 
believer then. Not the kind of husband and father he should have been. The good 
old days really hadn't been so good at all. 
He couldn't complain about excitement in his life. While he despised Carpathia and 
hated to be in a position of actual service to the man, he had long since decided to 
be obedient to God. If this was where God wanted him, it was where he would 
serve. He just hoped Hattie Durham might come back through Chicago before he 
had to leave. Somehow, he and Amanda and Chloe and Buck had to pull her away 
from Nicolae Carpathia. It had been encouraging to him, in a perverse way, that she 
had found her own reasons to distance herself from Nicolae. But Carpathia might 
not be so easily dumped, considering that she was carrying his child and he was so 
jealous of his public image. 
Buck was busy with Donny Moore, learning the incredible features of the new 
computers, when he heard Loretta on the phone. 
¡§Yes, Verna,¡¨ she was saying, ¡§he's busy with someone right now, but I'll tell him 
you said Steve Plank called.¡¨ 
Buck excused himself from Donny for a second and mouthed to Loretta, ¡§If she's at 
the office, ask her if my checks are there.¡¨ 
Buck had been away from both the New York and Chicago offices on paydays for 
several weeks and was pleased to see Loretta nodding after she had asked Verna 
about the checks. One thing he had seen in Bruce's printouts, and which had been 
corroborated by Tsion, was that he needed to start investing in gold. Cash would 
soon be meaningless. He had to start stockpiling some sort of financial resource 
because, even in the best-case scenario, even if Verna became a believer and 
protected him from Carpathia, he couldn't maintain this ruse for long. That 
relationship would end. His income would dry up. He would not be able to buy or 
sell without the mark of the beast anyway, and the new world order Carpathia was 
so proud of could virtually starve him out. 
By a quarter to six, the sanctuary was nearly empty. Rayford headed back to the 
office. He shut the door behind him. ¡§We can have our moment alone with Bruce's 
body in a few minutes,¡¨ he said. 
The Tribulation Force, plus Loretta and minus Tsion, sat somberly. ¡§So, that's what 
Donny Moore brought you?¡¨ Rayford said, nodding at the stack of laptops. 

¡§Yep. One for each of us. I asked Loretta if she wanted one too.¡¨ 
Loretta waved him off, smiling. ¡§I wouldn't know what to do with it. I probably 
couldn't even open it.¡¨ 
¡§Where's Tsion?¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§I really think we ought to keep him with us for a 
while and¡X¡¨ 
¡§Tsion is safe,¡¨ Buck said, looking carefully at Rayford. 
¡§Uh-huh.¡¨ 
¡§What does that mean?¡¨ Loretta asked. ¡§Where is he?¡¨ 
Rayford sat in a chair on wheels and rolled it close to Loretta. ¡§Ma'am, there are 
some things we are not going to tell you, for your own good.¡¨ 
¡§Well,¡¨ she said, ¡§what would you say if I told you I didn't appreciate that very 
much?¡¨ 
¡§I can understand, Loretta¡X¡¨ 
¡§I'm not so sure you can, Captain Steele. I've had things kept from me all my life 
just because I was a polite, southern lady.¡¨ 
¡§A southern belle is more like it,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Now you're patronizin' me, and I don't appreciate that either.¡¨ 
Rayford was taken aback. ¡§I'm sorry, Loretta, I meant no offense.¡¨ 
¡§Well, it offends me to have secrets kept from me.¡¨ 
Rayford leaned forward. ¡§I'm quite serious about doing this for your own good. The 
fact is, someday, and I mean someday very soon, very high-placed officials may try 
to force you to tell them where Tsion is.¡¨ 
¡§And you think if I know where he is, I'll crack.¡¨ 
¡§If you don't know where he is, you can't crack and don't even have to worry about 
it.¡¨ 
Loretta pursed her lips and shook her head. ¡§I know y'all are livin' dangerous lives. I 
feel like I've risked a lot just by puttin' you up. Now I'm only your landlady, is that 
it?¡¨ 
¡§Loretta, you're one of the dearest people in the world to us, that's who you are. We 
wouldn't do anything to hurt you. That's why, even though I know it offends 
you¡Xand that's the last thing I want to do¡XI'm not going to let you intimidate me 
into telling you where Tsion is. You'll be able to communicate with him by phone, 
and we can communicate with him by computer. Someday you may thank us for 
withholding this from you.¡¨ 
Amanda interrupted. ¡§Rayford, are you and Buck saying that Tsion is where I think 
he is?¡¨ 
Rayford nodded. 

¡§Is that necessary already?¡¨ Chloe asked. 
¡§I'm afraid so. I wish I could say how long it will be for the rest of us.¡¨ 
Loretta, clearly peeved, stood and paced, her arms folded across her chest. ¡§Captain 
Steele, sir, could you tell me one thing? Could you tell me that you're not keepin' 
this from me because you think I'd blab it all over?¡¨ 
Rayford stood. ¡§Loretta, come here.¡¨ 
She stopped and stared at him. 
¡§Come on now,¡¨ he said. ¡§Come right over here and let me hug you. I'm young 
enough to be your son, so don't be taking this as condescending.¡¨ 
Loretta seemed to be refusing to smile, but she did slowly approach Rayford. He 
embraced her. ¡§Ma'am, I've known you long enough to know that you don't tell 
secrets. The fact is, the people who might ask you about Tsion Ben-Judah's 
whereabouts wouldn't hesitate to use a lie detector or even truth serum if they 
thought you knew. If they could somehow force you to give him up against your 
will, it could really hurt the cause of Christ.¡¨ 
She hugged him. ¡§All right then,¡¨ she said. ¡§I still think I'm a tougher bird than you 
people seem to think, but all right. If I didn't think you were doin' this with my best 
interests in mind, misguided as y'all are, I'd throw you out of my boardinghouse.¡¨ 
That made everybody smile. Everybody except Loretta. 
There was a knock at the door. ¡§Excuse me, sir,¡¨ the funeral director said to 
Rayford. ¡§The sanctuary is empty.¡¨ 
Buck was last in line as the five of them filed into the sanctuary and stood by 
Bruce's coffin. At first Buck felt guilty. He was strangely unmoved. He realized he 
had expended his emotion during the memorial service. He knew so well that Bruce 
was no longer there that he largely felt nothing by simply noting that his friend was, 
indeed, dead. 
And yet he was able to use these moments, standing there with the people closest to 
him in the world, to think about how dramatically and specifically God had acted in 
his behalf even just within the last several hours. If there was one thing he had 
learned from Bruce, it was that the Christian life was a series of new beginnings. 
What had God done for him lately? What hadn't he done for him? Buck only wished 
he would feel the same compulsion to renew his commitment to the service of 
Christ when God didn't seem so close. 
Twenty minutes later, Buck and Chloe pulled into the parking lot of Global 
Community Weekly. Only Verna's car was in the lot. 
To Buck, it seemed Verna looked both surprised and disappointed to see Chloe 
hobbling in with him. Chloe must have noticed too. ¡§Am I not welcome here?¡¨ she 
said. 
¡§Of course,¡¨ Verna said. ¡§If Buck needs someone to hold his hand.¡¨ 

¡§Why would I need someone to hold my hand?¡¨ 
They sat in a small conference room with Verna at the head of the table. She leaned 
back in her seat and steepled her fingers. ¡§Buck, we both know I hold all the cards 
now, don't we?¡¨ 
¡§What happened to the new Verna?¡¨ Buck asked. 
¡§There was no new Verna,¡¨ she said. ¡§Just a slightly mellower version of the old 
Verna.¡¨ 
Chloe leaned forward. ¡§Then nothing we've said, nothing you and I have talked 
about, nothing you've seen or heard or experienced at Loretta's house or at the 
church has meant anything to you whatsoever?¡¨ 
¡§Well, I have to admit I appreciate the new car. It is better than the one I had. Of 
course, that was only fair, and the least Buck could do for me after ruining mine.¡¨ 
¡§So,¡¨ Chloe said, ¡§your moments of vulnerability, your admitting that you had been 
jealous of Buck, and your realization that you had been inappropriate in how you 
talked with him, that was all, what, made up?¡¨ 
Verna stood. She put her hands on her hips and stared down at Buck and Chloe. 
¡§I'm really surprised at how petty this conversation has begun. We're not talking 
about office politics here. We're not talking about personality conflicts. The fact is, 
Buck, you're not loyal to your employer. It's not just a matter of worrying, because 
it isn't journalism the way it's supposed to be. I've got a problem with that myself. I 
even told Chloe that, didn't I, Chloe?¡¨ 
¡§You did.¡¨ 
¡§Carpathia has bought up all the news outlets, I know that,¡¨ Verna continued. 
¡§None of us old-fashioned journalists enjoy the prospect of covering news our 
owner is making. We don't like being expected to put his spin on everything. But, 
Buck, you're a wolf in sheep's clothing. You're a spy. You're the enemy. You not 
only don't like the man, you also think he's the Antichrist himself.¡¨ 
¡§Why don't you sit down, Verna?¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§We all know the little negotiation 
hints from the books that teach you how to look out for number one. I can't speak 
for Buck, but your trying to tower over me doesn't intimidate me.¡¨ 
¡§I'll sit down, but only because I want to.¡¨ 
¡§So, what's your game?¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§Are you about to engage in extortion?¡¨ 
¡§Speaking of that,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§I'll thank you for my checks for the last several 
weeks.¡¨ 
¡§I haven't touched them. They're in your top drawer. And no, I'm not a blackmailer. 
It just seems to me your life depends on who knows or doesn't know that you're 
harboring Tsion Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§That's something you think you know?¡¨ 

¡§I saw him in church this morning!¡¨ 
¡§At least you thought you did,¡¨ Chloe said. 
Buck flinched and looked at her. So did Verna. For the first time, Buck saw a flicker 
of uncertainty on Verna's face. 
¡§You're telling me I didn't see Tsion Ben-Judah in church this morning?¡¨ 
¡§It certainly sounds unlikely,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§Wouldn't you say?¡¨ 
¡§Not really. I know Buck was in Israel and that his papers were found with a Ben- 
Judah sympathizer.¡¨ 
¡§And so you saw Buck in church with Ben-Judah?¡¨ 
¡§I didn't say that. I said I saw Ben-Judah. He was sitting with that woman who put 
me up the other night, Loretta.¡¨ 
¡§So Loretta's dating Tsion Ben-Judah, is that what you're saying?¡¨ 
¡§You know what I'm saying, Chloe. Ben-Judah even spoke in that service. If that 
wasn't him, I'm no journalist.¡¨ 
¡§No comment,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I resent that!¡¨ 
Chloe kept the pressure on. ¡§You were sitting somewhere where we couldn't see 
you¡X¡¨ 
¡§I was in the balcony, if you must know.¡¨ 
¡§And from the balcony you could see a man sitting in the back with Loretta?¡¨ 
¡§I didn't say that. I meant I could tell he was sitting with her. They both spoke and it 
sounded like it was coming from the same area.¡¨ 
¡§So Ben-Judah escapes from Israel, apparently with Buck's help. Buck is brilliant 
enough to leave his official papers with some enemy of the state. When Buck gets 
Ben-Judah safely into North America; he brings him out in public at his own 
church, and then Ben-Judah stands and speaks in front of hundreds of people. This 
is your thought?¡¨ 
Verna was sputtering. ¡§Well, he, well, if that wasn't Ben-Judah, who was it?¡¨ 
¡§This is your story, Verna.¡¨ 
¡§Loretta will tell me. I got the impression she liked me. I'm sure I saw him walking 
out the back with her. A small, kind of stocky Israeli?¡¨ 
¡§And you could tell from behind who he was?¡¨ 
¡§I'm gonna call Loretta right now.¡¨ She reached for a phone. ¡§I don't suppose you'd 
give me her phone number.¡¨ 
Buck wondered if that was a good idea. They had not prepped Loretta. But after the 
incident in the office with Rayford earlier, he believed Loretta could handle Verna 

Zee. ¡§Sure,¡¨ Buck said, scribbling the number. 
Verna hit the speaker button and dialed. 
¡§Loretta's phone, Rayford Steele speaking.¡¨ 
Apparently, Verna had not expected that. ¡§Oh, uh, yes. Loretta please.¡¨ 
¡§May I ask¡X¡¨ 
¡§Verna Zee.¡¨ 
When Loretta came on, she was her typical, charming self. ¡§Verna, dear! How are 
you? I heard you were at the service today, but I missed you. Did you find it as 
moving as I did?¡¨ 
¡§We'll have to talk about that sometime, Loretta. I just wanted to¡X¡¨ 
¡§I can't think of a better time than now, sweetheart. Would you like to meet 
someplace, come over, what?¡¨ 
Verna looked irritated. ¡§No, ma'am, not now. Sometime, maybe. I just wanted to 
ask you a question. Who was that man with you in church this morning?¡¨ 
¡§That man?¡¨ 
¡§Yes! You were with a Middle Eastern man. He spoke briefly. Who was he?¡¨ 
¡§Is this on the record?¡¨ 
¡§No! I'm just asking.¡¨ 
¡§Well I'm just telling you that that's a personal, impertinent question.¡¨ 
¡§So you're not going to tell me?¡¨ 
¡§I don't believe it's any of your business.¡¨ 
¡§What if I told you that Buck and Chloe said you'd tell me?¡¨ 
¡§First off, I'd probably say you were a liar. But that would be impolite and more 
impertinent than the question you asked.¡¨ 
¡§Just tell me if that was Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah of Israel!¡¨ 
¡§It sounds like you've already named him. What do you need my input for?¡¨ 
¡§So, it was him?¡¨ 
¡§You said it. I didn't.¡¨ 
¡§But was it?¡¨ 
¡§You want the honest truth, Verna? That man is my secret lover. I keep him under 
the bed.¡¨ 
¡§What? What? So, come on¡X¡¨ 
¡§Verna, if you'd like to talk about how moved you were by our memorial service 
this morning, I'd love to chat with you some more. Do you?¡¨ 
Verna hung uppn Loretta. ¡§All right, so you've all gotten together and decided not 

to tell the truth. I don't think I'll have much trouble convincing Steve Plank or even 
Nicolae Carpathia that it appears you're harboring Tsion Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
Chloe looked at Buck. ¡§You think Buck would do something so royally stupid it 
would not only get him fired, but it would also get him killed? And you're going to 
use the threat of this news to the Global Community higher-ups in exchange for 
what?¡¨ 
Verna stalked out of the room. Buck looked at Chloe, winked, and shook his head. 
¡§You're priceless,¡¨ he said. 
Verna rushed back in and slapped Buck's checks on the table. ¡§You know your time 
is short, Buck.¡¨ 
¡§Truth to tell,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§I believe all of our time is short.¡¨ 
Verna sat down resignedly. ¡§You really believe this stuff, don't you?¡¨ 
Buck tried to change the tone. He spoke sympathetically. ¡§Verna, you've talked with 
Loretta and Amanda and Chloe and me. We've all shared our stories. You heard 
Rayford's story this morning. If we're all wacko, then we're all wacko. But were you 
not in the least impressed with some of the things that Bruce Barnes garnered from 
the Bible? Things that are coming true right now?¡¨ 
Verna, at last, was silent for a moment. Finally she spoke. ¡§It was kind of strange. 
Kind of impressive. But isn't it just like Nostradamus? Can't these prophecies be 
read into? Can't they mean anything you want them to mean?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know how you could believe that,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§You're smarter than that. 
Bruce said that if the treaty between the United Nations and Israel was the covenant 
referred to in the Bible, it would usher in the seven-year tribulation period. First 
there would be the seven Seal Judgments. The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse 
would be the horse of peace¡Xfor eighteen months¡Xthe horse of war, the horse of 
plague and famine, and the horse of death.¡¨ 
¡§That's all symbolic, isn't it?¡¨ Verna said. 
¡§Of course it is,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§I haven't seen any horsemen. But I have seen a year 
and a half of peace. I have seen World War III break out. I've seen it result in 
plagues and famine with more to come. I've seen lots of people die, and more will. 
What will it take to convince you? You can't see the fifth Seal Judgment, the 
martyred saints under the altar in heaven. But did you hear what Rayford said Bruce 
believes is coming next?¡¨ 
¡§An earthquake, yes, I know.¡¨ 
¡§Will that convince you?¡¨ 
Verna turned in her chair and stared out the window. ¡§I suppose that would be 
pretty hard to argue with.¡¨ 
¡§I have some advice for you,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§If that earthquake is as devastating as 
the Bible makes it sound, you may not have time to change your mind about all of 

this before your time is up.¡¨ 
Verna stood and walked slowly to the door. Holding it open, she said softly, ¡§I still 
don't like the idea of Buck's pretending to Carpathia to be something he's not.¡¨ 
Buck and Chloe followed her out toward the front door. ¡§Our private lives, our 
beliefs, are none of our employer's business,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§For instance, if I knew 
you were a lesbian, I wouldn't feel it necessary to tell your superiors.¡¨ 
Verna whirled to face him. ¡§Who told you that? What business is that of yours? You 
tell anybody that and I'll¡X¡¨ 
Buck raised both hands. ¡§Verna, your personal life is confidential with me. You 
don't have to worry that I'll ever say anything to anybody about that.¡¨ 
¡§There's nothing to tell!¡¨ 
¡§My point exactly.¡¨ 
Buck held the door open for Chloe. In the parking lot, Verna said, ¡§So we're 
agreed?¡¨ 
¡§Agreed?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§That neither of us is going to say anything about the other's personal life?¡¨ 
Buck shrugged. ¡§Sounds fair to me.¡¨ 
The funeral director was on the phone with Rayford. ¡§So,¡¨ he was saying, ¡§with the 
backlog of deaths, the scarcity of grave sites, and so forth, we're estimating 
interment no sooner than three weeks, possibly as late as five weeks. We store the 
bodies at no charge to you, as this is a matter of public health.¡¨ 
¡§I understand. If you could simply inform us once the burial has occurred, we'd 
appreciate it. We will not have a service, and no one will attend.¡¨ 
Loretta sat at the dining room table next to Rayford. ¡§That seems so sad,¡¨ she said. 
¡§Are you sure not even one of us should go?¡¨ 
¡§I've never been much for graveside services,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§And I don't think 
anything more needs to be said over Bruce's body.¡¨ 
¡§That's true,¡¨ she said. ¡§It's not like that's him. He's not going to feel lonely or 
neglected.¡¨ 
Rayford nodded and pulled a sheet from a stack of Bruce's papers. ¡§Loretta, I think 
Bruce would have wanted you to see this.¡¨ 
¡§What is it?¡¨ 
¡§It's from his personal journal. A few private thoughts about you.¡¨ 
¡§Are you sure?¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 

¡§I mean, are you sure he'd want me to see it?¡¨ 
¡§I can go only by my own feelings,¡¨ he said. ¡§If I had written something like this, I 
would want you to see it, especially after I was gone.¡¨ 
Loretta, her fingers shaking, pulled the sheet to where she could read it with her 
bifocals. She was soon overcome. ¡§Thank you, Rayford,¡¨ she managed through her 
tears. ¡§Thank you for letting me see that.¡¨ 
¡§Buck! I had no idea Verna was a lesbian!¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§You had no idea? Neither did I!¡¨ 
¡§You're kidding!¡¨ 
¡§I'm not. You think that little revelation was of God too?¡¨ 
¡§I'd sooner think it was a wild coincidence, but you never know. That tidbit may 
have saved your life.¡¨ 
¡§You may have saved my life, Chloe. You were brilliant in there.¡¨ 
¡§Just sticking up for my man. She rattled the wrong cage.¡¨ 
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 
A WEEK and a half later, as Rayford was preparing to head back to New Babylon 
to resume his duties, he got a call from Leon Fortunato. ¡§You haven't heard 
anything from the potentate's woman, have you?¡¨ 
¡§The potentate's woman?¡¨ Rayford repeated, trying to let his disgust show. 
¡§You know who I'm talking about. She flew over there on the same flight you did. 
Where is she?¡¨ 
¡§I wasn't under the impression I was responsible for her.¡¨ 
¡§Steele, you don't really want to withhold information about somebody Carpathia 
wants to know about.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, he wants to know where she is. In other words, he hasn't heard from her?¡¨ 
¡§You know that's the only reason I'd be calling you.¡¨ 
¡§Where does he think she is?¡¨ 
¡§Don't play games with me, Steele. Tell me what you know.¡¨ 
¡§I don't know precisely where she is. And I don't feel the liberty to be reporting on 
her whereabouts or even where I think she is, without her knowledge.¡¨ 
¡§I think you'd better remember who you work for, pal.¡¨ 
¡§How can I forget?¡¨ 

¡§So, you want me to imply to Carpathia that you're harboring his fiancee?¡¨ 
¡§If that's what you're worried about, I can put your mind at ease. The last time I saw 
Hattie Durham was at Mitchell Field in Milwaukee when I arrived.¡¨ 
¡§And she went on where?¡¨ 
¡§I really don't think I should be sharing her itinerary if she chose not to.¡¨ 
¡§You could regret this, Steele.¡¨ 
¡§You know what, Leon? I'll sleep tonight.¡¨ 
¡§We're assuming she went to see her family in Denver. There was no war damage 
there, so we don't understand why we can't get through by phone.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure you have many resources for locating her. I'd rather not be one of them.¡¨ 
¡§I hope you're financially secure, Captain Steele.¡¨ 
Rayford did not respond. He didn't want to get into more of a war of words with 
Leon Fortunato. 
¡§There's been a slight change of plans by the way, as it relates to your picking up 
Supreme Pontiff Mathews in Rome.¡¨ 
¡§I'm listening.¡¨ 
¡§Carpathia will be going with you. He wants to accompany Mathews back to New 
Babylon.¡¨ 
¡§How does that affect me?¡¨ 
¡§I just wanted to make sure you didn't leave without him.¡¨ 
Buck had already had his tongue-lashing by phone from Steve Plank about having 
allowed his passport and ID to fall into the wrong hands in Israel. ¡§They tortured 
that Shorosh guy within an inch of his life, and he still swore you were just a 
passenger on his boat.¡¨ 
¡§It was a nice big, wood boat,¡¨ Buck had said. 
¡§Well, the boat is no more.¡¨ 
¡§What was the point of destroying a man's boat and torturing him?¡¨ 
¡§Are we on the record?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know, Steve. Are we talking as journalists, friends, or is this a warning from 
a colleague?¡¨ 
Steve changed the subject. ¡§Carpathia still likes the copy you're sending out from 
Chicago. He thinks Global Community Weekly is the best magazine in the world. 
Of course, it always has been.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, yeah. If you forget about objectivity and journalistic credibility¡X¡¨ 

¡§We all forgot about that years ago,¡¨ Plank had said. ¡§Even before we were owned 
by Carpathia, we still had to dance to somebody's tune.¡¨ 
Buck brought Amanda, Chloe, Rayford, and Tsion up to speed on their new laptop 
computers. Tsion had been using his secure phone to talk to everyone at Loretta's 
place, which they began calling their ¡§safe house.¡¨ More than once Loretta said, 
¡§That man sounds like he's next door.¡¨ 
¡§That's cellular technology for you,¡¨ Buck said. 
Tsion required daily visits from his fellow Tribulation Force members, just to keep 
his spirits up. He was fascinated by the new technology, and he spent much of his 
time monitoring the news. He was tempted to try to communicate via E-mail to 
many of his spiritual children around the world; however, he feared they might be 
tortured in attempts to determine his whereabouts. He asked Buck to ask Donny 
how he might go about communicating widely without the recipients of his missives 
suffering for it. The solution was simple. He would merely put his messages on a 
central bulletin board, and no one would know who was accessing them. 
Tsion spent much of his days poring over Bruce's material and getting it into 
publishable shape. That was made easier by Buck's getting it to Tsion on disk. 
Frequently Tsion uploaded portions and in essence broadcast them to certain 
members of the Tribulation Force. He was especially impressed with what Bruce 
had to say about Chloe and Amanda. In his personal journal Bruce frequently 
mentioned his dream that they work together, researching, writing, and teaching cell 
groups and house churches. Eventually it was agreed that Amanda would not return 
to New Babylon until after Rayford got back from his flight to Rome. That would 
give her a few more days with Chloe to plan a ministry similar to what Bruce had 
outlined. They didn't know where it would take them or what the opportunities 
would be, but they enjoyed working together and seemed to learn more that way. 
Buck was glad Verna Zee was keeping her distance. Much of the staff of the 
Chicago office was deployed to various bombed-out cities to report on the resultant 
chaos. There was no doubt in Buck's mind that the black horse of plagues and 
famine and the pale horse of death had come galloping in on the heels of the red 
horse of war. 
On Wednesday evening, Amanda drove Rayford to Milwaukee for his flight to Iraq. 
¡§Why couldn't Mathews fly on his own plane to see Carpathia?¡¨ she said. 
¡§You know Carpathia. He likes to take the upper hand by being the most deferential 
and kind. He not only sends a plane for you, he also comes along and accompanies 
you back.¡¨ 
¡§What does he want from Mathews?¡¨ 
¡§Who knows? It could be anything. The increase in converts we're seeing has to be 

very troubling for Mathews. We are one faction that doesn't buy into the one-world 
faith routine.¡¨ 
At six Thursday morning, Loretta's household was awakened by the phone. Chloe 
grabbed it. She put her hand over the mouthpiece and told Buck, ¡§Loretta's got it. 
It's Hattie.¡¨ 
Buck leaned close to listen with her. ¡§Yes,¡¨ Loretta was saying, ¡§you woke me, 
darlin', but it's all right. Captain Steele said you might call.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I'm flying through Milwaukee on my way back to New Babylon, and I 
purposely scheduled a six-hour layover. Tell anybody there who cares that I'll be at 
Mitchell Field if they want to talk to me. They shouldn't feel obligated, and I won't 
be offended if they don't come.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, they'll come, hon. Don't you worry about that.¡¨ 
That same hour was three o'clock in the afternoon in Baghdad when Rayford's 
commercial flight landed. He had planned to stay onboard to wait for the short flight 
on to New Babylon a little over an hour later, but his cell phone vibrated in his 
pocket. He wondered if this would be the call from Buck, or from Carpathia about 
Buck, that would end the speculation and suspicion of the Tribulation Force. They 
all knew it couldn't be long before Buck's position was jeopardized past the point of 
safety. Rayford also had a fleeting thought that this might be a call from Hattie 
Durham. He had waited as long as he could before heading back, hoping to connect 
with her before her return. Like Carpathia and Fortunato, he had no luck trying to 
reach her by phone in Denver. 
But the call was from his copilot, Mac McCullum. ¡§Get off that plane, Steele, and 
stretch your legs. Your taxi is here.¡¨ 
¡§Hey, Mac! What's that mean?¡¨ 
¡§It means the big boss doesn't want to wait. Meet me at the helipad on the other side 
of the terminal. I'm coptering you back to headquarters.¡¨ 
Rayford had wanted to put off his return to New Babylon as long as possible, but at 
least a helicopter ride was a diversion. He envied McCullum's ability to easily 
switch back and forth between copiloting jumbo jets and flying whirlybirds. 
Rayford hadn't piloted a helicopter since his military days more than twenty years 
before. 
Global Community Weekly was released to the public every Thursday, with the 
following Monday's date on the cover. Buck tingled with excitement merely 
anticipating that day's issue. 
At the safe house it was decided that Amanda and Chloe would drive up to 

Milwaukee to pick up Hattie. Loretta would come home from the church office in 
time to host a small luncheon for her. Buck would go to the office to see the first 
copies of the magazine and head for Loretta's house when he got the call from 
Chloe that she and Amanda and Hattie were home. 
Buck had gone out on a limb with his cover story. 
Purporting, as usual, to take a neutral, objective, journalistic viewpoint, Buck 
started with much of the material Bruce would have preached the Sunday morning 
of his own funeral. Buck did the writing, but he assigned reporters from every 
Global Community Weekly office still standing in several countries to interview 
local and regional clergymen about the prophecies in the book of Revelation. 
For some reason, his reporters¡Xmost of them skeptics¡Xwent at this task with glee. 
Buck was faxed, modemed, phoned, couriered, and mailed dispatches from all over 
the world. His cover story title, and the specific question he wanted his reporters to 
ask religious leaders, was ¡§Will we suffer the 'wrath of the Lamb'?¡¨ 
Buck had enjoyed this self-assigned task more than all the other cover stories he had 
ever done. That included his Man of the Year stories, even the one on Chaim 
Rosenzweig. He had spent nearly three days and nights, hardly sleeping, collating, 
contrasting, and comparing the various reports. 
He, of course, could detect fellow believers in some of the comments. Despite the 
skepticism and cynicism of most of the reporters, tribulation-saint pastors and a few 
converted Jews were quoted that the ¡§wrath of the Lamb¡¨ predicted in Revelation 6 
was literal and imminent. The vast majority of the quotes were from clergy formerly 
representing various and sundry religions and denominations, but now serving 
Enigma Babylon One World Faith. Almost to a person, these men and women ¡§faith 
guides¡¨ (no one was called a reverend or a pastor or a priest anymore) took their 
lead from Pontifex Maximus Peter Mathews. Buck himself had talked to Mathews. 
His view, echoed dozens of times, was that the book of Revelation was ¡§wonderful, 
archaic, beautiful literature, to be taken symbolically, figuratively, metaphorically. 
This earthquake,¡¨ Mathews had told Buck by phone, a smile in his voice, ¡§could 
refer to anything. It may have happened already. It may refer to something someone 
imagined going on in heaven. Who knows? It may be some story related to the old 
theory of an eternal man in the sky who created the world. I don't know about you, 
but I have not seen any apocalyptic horsemen. I haven't seen anyone die for their 
religion. I haven't seen anyone 'slain for the word of God,' as the previous verses 
say. I haven't seen anyone in a white robe. And I don't expect to endure any 
earthquake. Regardless of your view on the person or concept of God, or a god, 
hardly anyone today would imagine a supreme spirit¡Xbeing full of goodness and 
light subjecting the entire earth¡Xalready suffering from so recent a devastating 
war¡Xto a calamity like an earthquake.¡¨ 
¡§But,¡¨ Buck had asked him, ¡§are you not aware that this idea of fearing the 'wrath 
of the Lamb' is a doctrine still preached in many churches?¡¨ 

¡§Of course,¡¨ Mathews had responded. ¡§But these are the same holdovers from your 
right-wing, fanatical, fundamentalist factions who have always taken the Bible 
literally. These same preachers, and I daresay many of their parishioners, are the 
ones who take the creation account¡Xthe Adam and Eve myth, if you will¡Xliterally. 
¡§They believe the entire world was under water at the time of Noah and that only he 
and his three sons and their wives survived to begin the entire human race as we 
now know it.¡¨ 
¡§But you, as a Catholic, as the former pope¡X¡¨ 
¡§Not just the former pope, Mr. Williams, also a former Catholic. I feel a great 
responsibility as leader of the Global Community's faith to set aside all trappings of 
parochialism. I must, in the spirit of unity and conciliation and ecumenism, be 
prepared to admit that much Catholic thought and scholarship was just as rigid and 
narrow-minded as that which I'm criticizing here.¡¨ 
¡§Such as?¡¨ 
¡§I don't care to be too specific, at the risk of offending those few who still like to 
refer to themselves as Catholics, but the idea of a literal virgin birth should be seen 
as an incredible leap of logic. The idea that the Holy Roman Catholic Church was 
the only true church was almost as damaging as the evangelical Protestant view that 
Jesus was the only way to God. That assumes, of course, that Jesus was, as so many 
of my Bible-worshiping friends like to say, 'the only begotten Son of the Father.' By 
now I'm sure that most thinking people realize that God is, at most, a spirit, an idea, 
if you will. If they like to infuse him, or it, or her, with some characteristics of 
purity and goodness, it only follows that we are all sons and daughters of God.¡¨ 
Buck had led him. ¡§The idea of heaven and hell then ... ?¡¨ 
¡§Heaven is a state of mind. Heaven is what you can make of your life here on earth. 
I believe we're heading toward a Utopian state. Hell? More damage has been done 
to more tender psyches by the wholly mythical idea that¡Xwell, let me put it this 
way: Let's say those fundamentalists, these people who believe we're about to suffer 
the 'wrath of the Lamb,' are right that there is a loving, personal God who cares 
about each one of us. How does that jibe? Is it possible he would create something 
that he would eventually burn up? It makes no sense.¡¨ 
¡§But don't Christian believers, the ones you're trying to characterize, say that God is 
not willing that any should perish? In other words, he doesn't send people to hell. 
Hell is judgment for those who don't believe, but everyone is given the 
opportunity.¡¨ 
¡§You have summarized their position well, Mr. Williams. But, as I'm sure you can 
see, it just doesn't hold water.¡¨ 
Early that morning, before the door was unlocked, Buck picked up the shrinkwrapped 
bundle of Global Community Weeklys and lugged them inside. The 
secretaries would distribute one to each desk, but for now Buck ripped off the 

plastic and set a magazine before him. The cover, which had been tweaked at the 
international headquarters office, was even better than Buck had hoped. Under the 
logo was a stylized illustration of a huge mountain range splitting from one end to 
the other. A red moon hung over the scene, and the copy read: ¡§Will You Suffer the 
Wrath of the Lamb?¡¨ 
Buck turned to the extra-long story inside that carried his byline. Characteristic of a 
Buck Williams story, he had covered all the bases. He had quoted leaders from 
Carpathia and Mathews to local faith guides. There was even a smattering of quotes 
from the man on the street. 
The biggest coup, in Buck's mind, was a sidebar carrying a brief but very cogent 
and articulate word study by none other than Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah. He explained 
who the sacrificed Lamb was in Scripture and how the imagery had begun in the 
Old Testament and was fulfilled by Jesus in the New Testament. 
Buck had been suspicious about not having been called on the carpet by anyone but 
his old friend Steve Plank regarding his potential involvement in the escape of 
Tsion Ben-Judah. Quoting Tsion extensively in his own sidebar could have made it 
seem as if Buck were rubbing in the faces of his superiors his knowledge of Ben- 
Judah's whereabouts. But he had headed that off. When the story was filed and sent 
via satellite to the various print plant facilities, Buck added a note that ¡§Dr. Ben- 
Judah learned of this story over the Internet and has submitted his view via 
computer from an undisclosed location.¡¨ 
Also amusing to Buck, if anything about this cosmic subject could be amusing, was 
that one of his enterprising young reporters from Africa took it. upon himself to 
interview geological scholars in a university in Zimbabwe. Their conclusion? ¡§The 
idea of a global earthquake is, on the face of it, illogical. Earthquakes are caused by 
faults, by underground plates rubbing against each other. It's cause and effect. The 
reason it happens in certain areas at certain times is, logically, because it's not 
happening other places at the same time. These plates move and crash together 
because they have nowhere else to go. You never hear of simultaneous earthquakes. 
There is not one in North America and one in South America at precisely the same 
time. The odds against one earth-wide geological event, which would really be 
simultaneous earthquakes all over the globe, are astronomical.¡¨ 
McCullum landed the chopper on the roof of the Global Community international 
headquarters building in New Babylon. He helped carry Rayford's bags into the 
elevator that took them past Carpathia's Suite 216, an entire floor of offices and 
conference rooms. Rayford had never understood its address, as it was not on the 
second floor at all. Carpathia and his senior staff occupied the top floor of the 
eighteen-story building. 
Rayford hoped Carpathia would not know precisely when they arrived. He assumed 
he would have to face the man when he flew him to Rome to pick up Mathews, but 

Rayford wanted to get unpacked, freshen up, and settle in at his condo before 
getting back on board a plane again right away. He was grateful they were not 
intercepted. He had a couple of hours before takeoff. ¡§See you on the 216, Mac,¡¨ he 
said. 
The phones began ringing at the Global Weekly office even before anyone else 
began to arrive. Buck let the answering machine take the calls, and it wasn't long 
before he rolled his chair to the receptionist's desk and just sat listening to the 
comments. One woman said, ¡§So, Global Community Weekly has stooped to the 
level of the tabloids, covering every latest fairy tale to come out of the so-called 
church. Leave this trash to the yellow journalists.¡¨ 
Another said, ¡§I wouldn't have dreamed people still believe this malarkey. That you 
could dig up that many weirdos to contribute to one story is a tribute to investigative 
journalism. Thanks for exposing them to the light and showing them what fools 
they really are.¡¨ 
Only the occasional call carried the tone of this one from a woman in Florida: ¡§Why 
didn't somebody tell me about this before? I've been reading Revelation since the 
minute this magazine hit my doorstep, and I'm scared to death. What am I supposed 
to do now?¡¨ 
Buck hoped she would read deep enough into the article to discover what a 
converted Jew from Norway said was the only protection from the coming 
earthquake: ¡§No one should assume there will be shelter. If you believe, as I do, that 
Jesus Christ is the only hope for salvation, you should repent of your sins and 
receive him before the threat of death visits you.¡¨ 
Buck's personal phone buzzed. It was Verna. 
¡§Buck, I'm keeping your secret, so I hope you're keeping your end of the bargain.¡¨ 
¡§I am. What's got you so agitated this morning?¡¨ 
¡§Your cover story, of course. I knew it was coming, but I didn't expect it to be so 
overt. Do you think you've hidden behind your objectivity? Don't you think this 
exposes you as a proponent?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know. I hope not. Even if Carpathia didn't own this magazine, I would want 
to come across as objective.¡¨ 
¡§You're deluding yourself.¡¨ 
Buck scrambled mentally for an answer. In one way, he appreciated the warning. In 
another, this was old news. Maybe Verna was just trying to find some point of 
contact, some reason to start a dialogue again. ¡§Verna, I urge you to keep thinking 
about what you heard from Loretta, Chloe, and Amanda.¡¨ 
¡§And from you. Don't leave yourself out.¡¨ Her tone was mocking and sarcastic. 
¡§I mean it, Verna. If you ever want to talk about this stuff, you can come to me.¡¨ 

¡§With what your religion says about homosexuals, are you kidding?¡¨ 
¡§My Bible doesn't differentiate between homosexuals and heterosexuals,¡¨ Buck 
said. ¡§It may call practicing homosexuals sinners, but it also calls heterosexual sex 
outside of marriage sinful.¡¨ 
¡§Semantics, Buck. Semantics.¡¨ 
¡§Just remember what I said, Verna. I don't want our personality conflict to get in the 
way of what's real and true. You were right when you said the outbreak of the war 
made our skirmishes petty. I'm willing to put those behind us.¡¨ 
She was silent for a moment. Then she sounded almost impressed. ¡§Well, thank 
you, Buck. I'll keep that in mind.¡¨ 
By late morning Chicago time it was early evening in Iraq. Rayford and McCullum 
were flying Carpathia, Fortunato, and Dr. Kline to Rome to pick up One World 
Faith supreme pontiff Peter Mathews. Rayford knew Carpathia wanted to pave the 
way for the apostate union of religions to move to New Babylon, but he wasn't sure 
how Dr. Kline fit into this meeting. By listening in on his bugging device, he soon 
found out. 
As was his usual custom, Rayford took off, quickly reached cruising altitude, put 
the plane on autopilot, and turned over control to Mac McCullum. ¡§I feel like I've 
been on a plane all day,¡¨ he said, leaning back in his seat, pulling the bill of his cap 
down over his eyes, applying his headphones, and appearing to drift off to sleep. In 
the approximately two hours it took to fly from New Babylon to Rome, Rayford 
would get a lesson in new-world-order international diplomacy. But before they got 
down to business, Carpathia checked with Fortunato on the flight plans of Hattie 
Durham. 
Fortunato told him, ¡§She is on some kind of a multi-leg journey that has a long 
layover in Milwaukee, then heads for Boston. She'll fly nonstop from Boston to 
Baghdad. She'll lose several hours coming this way, but I think we can expect her 
tomorrow morning.¡¨ 
Carpathia sounded peeved. ¡§How long before we get the international terminal 
finished in New Babylon? I am tired of everything having to come through 
Baghdad.¡¨ 
¡§They're telling us a couple of months now.¡¨ 
¡§And these are the same building engineers who tell us everything else in New 
Babylon is state of the art?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir. Have you noticed problems?¡¨ 
¡§No, but it almost makes me wish this 'wrath of the Lamb' business was more than a 
myth. I would like to put the true test to their earthquake-proof claims.¡¨ 
¡§I saw that piece today,¡¨ Dr. Kline said. ¡§Interesting bit of fiction. That Williams 

can make an interesting story out of anything, can't he?¡¨ 
¡§Yes,¡¨ Carpathia said solemnly. ¡§I suspect he has made an interesting story of his 
own background.¡¨ 
¡§I don't follow.¡¨ 
¡§I do not follow either,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§Our intelligence forces link him to the 
disappearance of Rabbi Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
Rayford straightened and listened more closely. He didn't want McCullum to realize 
he was listening on a different frequency, but neither did he want to miss anything. 
¡§We are learning more and more about our brilliant young journalist,¡¨ Carpathia 
said. ¡§He has never been forthcoming about his ties to my own pilot, but then 
neither has Captain Steele. I still do not mind having them around. They may think 
they are in strategy proximity to me, but I am also able to learn much about the 
opposition through them.¡¨ 
So there it is, Rayford thought. The gauntlet is down. 
¡§Leon, what is the latest on those two crazy men in Jerusalem?¡¨ 
Fortunato sounded disgusted. ¡§They've got the whole nation of Israel up in arms 
again,¡¨ he said. ¡§You know it hasn't rained there since they began all that preaching. 
And that trick they pulled on the water supply¡Xturning it to blood¡Xduring the 
temple ceremonies, they're doing that again.¡¨ 
¡§What has set them off this time?¡¨ 
¡§I think you know.¡¨ 
¡§I have asked you not to be circumspect with me, Leon. When I ask you a question, 
I expect¡X¡¨ 
¡§Forgive me, Potentate. They have been carrying on about the arrest and torture of 
people associated with Dr. Ben-Judah. They are saying that until those suspects 
have been released and the search has been called off, all water supplies will be 
polluted by blood.¡¨ 
¡§How do they do that?¡¨ 
¡§No one knows, but it's very real, isn't it Dr. Kline?¡¨ 
¡§Oh yes,¡¨ he said. ¡§I have been sent samples. There is a high water content, but it is 
mostly blood.¡¨ 
¡§Human blood?¡¨ 
¡§It has all the characteristics of human blood, although the type is difficult to 
determine. It borders on some cross between human and animal blood.¡¨ 
¡§How is morale in Israel?¡¨ Carpathia asked. 
¡§The people are angry with the two preachers. They want to kill them.¡¨ 
¡§That is not all bad,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§Can we not get that done?¡¨ 

¡§No one dares. The death count on those who've made attacks on them is over a 
dozen by now. You learn your lesson after a while.¡¨ 
¡§We are going to find a way,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§Meanwhile, let the suspects go. Ben- 
Judah cannot get far. Anyway, without being able to show his face in public, he 
cannot do us much harm. If those two rascals do not immediately purify the water 
supply, we will see how they stand up to an atomic blast.¡¨ 
¡§You're not serious, are you?¡¨ Dr. Kline said. 
¡§Why would I not be?¡¨ 
¡§You would drop an atomic bomb on a sacred site in the Holy City?¡¨ 
¡§Frankly, I do not worry about the Wailing Wall or the Temple Mount or the new 
temple. Those two are giving me no end of grief, so mark my word: The day will 
come when they push me too far.¡¨ 
¡§It would be good to get Pontiff Mathews's opinion of all of this.¡¨ 
¡§We have enough of an agenda with him,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§In fact, I am sure he has 
an agenda for me as well, though perhaps a hidden one.¡¨ 
Later, after someone switched on the TV and the three men caught up on the 
international coverage of the war cleanup effort, Carpathia turned his attention to 
Dr. Kline. 
¡§As you know, the ten ambassadors voted unanimously to fund abortions for 
women in underprivileged countries. I have made an executive decision to make 
that unilateral. Every continent has suffered from the war, so all could be considered 
underprivileged. I do not anticipate a problem from Mathews on this, the way he 
might have protested were he still pope. However, should he express some 
opposition, are you prepared to discuss the long-term benefits?¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§And where are we on the technology for predetermineing the health and viability 
of a fetus?¡¨ 
¡§Amniocentesis can now tell us everything we want to know. Its benefits are so farreaching 
that it is worth any risk the procedure might afford.¡¨ 
¡§And Leon,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§are we at a point where we can announce sanctions 
requiring amniocentesis on every pregnancy, along with an abortion requirement for 
any fetal tissue determined to result in a deformed or handicapped fetus?¡¨ 
¡§Everything is in place,¡¨ Fortunato said. ¡§However, you are going to want as broad 
a base of support as possible before going public with that.¡¨ 
¡§Of course. That is one of the reasons for this meeting with Mathews.¡¨ 
¡§Are you optimistic?¡¨ Fortunato asked. 
¡§Should I not be? Is Mathews not aware that I put him where he is today?¡¨ 

¡§That's a question I ask myself all the time, Potentate. Surely you notice his lack of 
deference and respect. I don't like the way he treats you as if he's an equal.¡¨ 
¡§For the time being, he can be as pushy as he wants. He can be of great value to the 
cause because of his following. I know he is having financial difficulty because he 
cannot sell surplus churches. They are single-use facilities, so he will no doubt be 
pleading his case for more of an allotment from the Global Community. The 
ambassadors are already upset about this. For right now, though, I do not mind 
having the upper hand financially. Maybe we can strike a deal.¡¨ 
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 
BUCK was amused that his cover story was the hottest topic of the day. Every talk 
show, news show, and even some variety shows mentioned it. One comedy featured 
an animated short of a woolly lamb going on the rampage. They called it ¡§Our View 
of the 'Wrath of the Lamb.'¡¨ 
Glancing at the magazine before him, Buck suddenly realized that when he was 
exposed, when he would have to step down, when he possibly became a fugitive, it 
would be impossible to match the distribution of a magazine so well-established 
around the world. He might have a larger audience via television and the Internet, 
but he wondered if he would ever have the influence again that he had right now. 
He looked at his watch. It was almost time to head for the safe house and the 
luncheon with Hattie. 
Rayford and Mac McCullum had about an hour's break after they hit the ground in 
Rome and before they were to head back to New Babylon. They passed Peter 
Mathews and one of his aides boarding the plane. Rayford was nauseated by 
Carpathia's obsequious deference to Mathews. He heard the potentate say, ¡§How 
good of you to allow us to come and collect you, Pontiff. I am hoping we can have 
meaningful dialogue, profitable to the good of the Global Community.¡¨ 
Just before Rayford stepped out of earshot, Mathews told Carpathia, ¡§As long as it's 
profitable to the One World Faith, I don't much care whether you benefit or not.¡¨ 
Rayford found reasons to excuse himself from McCullum and hurry back to the 
plane and into the cockpit. He apologized to Fortunato for ¡§having to check on a 
few things¡¨ and was soon back in his customary spot. The door was locked. The 
reverse intercom was on, and Rayford was listening. 
Buck had not seen Hattie Durham in real distress since the night of the Rapture. He, 
like most other men, usually saw her only as striking. Now the kindest term he 

could think of for her was disheveled. She carried an oversized purse stuffed mostly 
with tissues, and she made use of every last one. Loretta pointed her to the head of 
the table, and when lunch was served, they all sat awkwardly, seeming to try to 
avoid meaningful conversation. 
Buck said, ¡§Amanda, would you pray for us?¡¨ 
Hattie quickly entwined her fingers under her chin, like a little girl kneeling at her 
bedside. Amanda said, ¡§Father, sometimes in the situations we find ourselves, it's 
difficult to know what to say to you. Sometimes we're unhappy. Sometimes we're 
distraught. Sometimes we have no idea where to turn. The world seems in such 
chaos. However, we know we can thank you for who you are. We thank you that 
you're a good God. That you care about us and love us. We thank you that you're 
sovereign and that you hold the world in your hands. We thank you for friends, 
especially old friends like Hattie. Give us words to say that might help her in 
whatever decision making she must do, and thank you for the provision of this food. 
In Jesus' name, Amen.¡¨ 
They ate in silence, Buck noticing that Hattie's eyes were full of tears. Despite that, 
she ate quickly and was done before the rest. She grabbed yet another tissue and 
blew her nose. 
¡§Well,¡¨ she said, ¡§Rayford insisted that I drop in on you on my way back. I'm sorry 
I missed him, but I think he really wanted me to talk to you anyway. Or maybe he 
wanted you to talk to me.¡¨ 
The women looked as puzzled as Buck felt. That was it? The floor was theirs? What 
were they supposed to do? It was hard to meet this woman at her point of need if 
she wasn't going to share that need. 
Loretta began. ¡§Hattie, what's troubling you the most just now?¡¨ 
Either what Loretta said or how she said it unleashed a torrent of tears. ¡§Fact is,¡¨ 
Hattie managed, ¡§I want an abortion. My family is encouraging me that way. I don't 
know what Nicolae will say, but if there's no change in our relationship when I get 
back there, I'm going to want an abortion for sure. I suppose I'm here because I 
know you'll try to talk me out of it, and I guess I need to hear both sides. Rayford 
already gave me the standard right-wing, pro-life position. I don't guess I need to 
hear that again.¡¨ 
¡§What do you need to hear?¡¨ Buck said, feeling very male and very insensitive just 
then. 
Chloe gave him a look that implied he should not push. ¡§Hattie,¡¨ she said, ¡§you 
know where we stand. That's not why you're here. If you want to be talked out of it, 
we can do that. If you won't be talked out of it, nothing we say will make any 
difference.¡¨ 
Hattie looked frustrated. ¡§So, you think I'm here to get preached at.¡¨ 
¡§We're not going to preach at you,¡¨ Amanda said. ¡§From what I understand, you 

know where we stand on the things of God as well.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, I do,¡¨ Hattie said. ¡§I'm sorry to have wasted your time. I guess I have a 
decision to make about this pregnancy, and it was foolish of me to drag you into it.¡¨ 
¡§Don't feel like you have to leave, darlin',¡¨ Loretta said. ¡§This is my house, and I'm 
your hostess, and you might risk offendin' me if you were to leave too early.¡¨ 
Hattie looked at her as if to be sure Loretta was teasing. It was clear that she was. ¡§I 
can just as easily wait at the airport,¡¨ Hattie said. ¡§I'm sorry to have put you through 
all this inconvenience.¡¨ 
Buck wanted to say something but knew he couldn't communicate at this level. He 
looked into the eyes of the women, who intently watched their guest. Finally, Chloe 
stood and walked behind Hattie's chair. She put her hands on Hattie's shoulders. ¡§I 
have always admired and liked you,¡¨ she said. ¡§I think we could have been friends 
in another situation. But Hattie, I feel led to tell you that I know why you came here 
today. I know why you followed my dad's advice, though you may have done it 
against your will. Something tells me your visit home was not successful. Maybe 
they were too practical. Maybe they didn't give you the compassion you needed 
along with their advice. Maybe hearing that they wanted you to end this pregnancy 
was not what you really wanted. 
¡§Let me just tell you, Hattie, if it's love you're looking for, you came to the right 
place. Yes, there are things we believe. Things we think you should know. Things 
we think you should agree with. Decisions we think you should make. We have 
ideas about what you should do about your baby, and we have ideas about what you 
should do about your soul. But these are personal decisions only you can make. And 
while they are life-and-death, heaven-and-hell decisions, all we can offer is support, 
encouragement, advice if you ask for it, and love.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah,¡¨ Hattie said, ¡§love, if I buy into everything you have to sell.¡¨ 
¡§No. We are going to love you anyway. We're going to love you the way God loves 
you. We're going to love you so fully and so well that you won't be able to hide 
from it. Even if your decisions go against everything we believe to be true, and even 
though we would grieve over the loss of innocent life if you chose to abort your 
baby, we won't love you any less.¡¨ 
Hattie burst into tears as Chloe rubbed her shoulders. ¡§That's impossible! You can't 
love me no matter what I do, especially if I ignore your advice!¡¨ 
¡§You're right,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§We are not capable of unconditional love. That's why 
we have to let God love you through us. He's the one who loves us regardless of 
what we do. The Bible says he sent his Son to die for us while we were dead in our 
sins. That's unconditional love. That's what we have to offer you, Hattie, because 
that's all we have.¡¨ 
Hattie stood awkwardly, and her chair scraped the floor as she turned to embrace 
Chloe. They held each other for a long minute, and then the entire party moved into 

the other room. Hattie tried to smile. ¡§I feel foolish,¡¨ she said, ¡§like a blubbering 
schoolgirl.¡¨ 
The other women didn't protest. They didn't tell her she looked fine. They simply 
looked at her with love. For a moment Buck wished he was Hattie so he could 
respond. He didn't know about her, but this sure would have won him over. 
¡§I'll get right to it,¡¨ Peter Mathews told Carpathia. ¡§If there are ways we can help 
each other, I want to know what you need. Because there are things I need from 
you.¡¨ 
¡§Such as?¡¨ Carpathia asked. 
¡§Frankly, I need amnesty from One World Faith's debt to your administration. We 
might be able to pay back some of our allotment someday, but right now we just 
don't have the income.¡¨ 
¡§Having trouble selling off some of those surplus church buildings?¡¨ Carpathia 
said. 
¡§Oh, that's part of it, but a very small part. Our real problem lies with two religious 
groups who not only have refused to join our union, but who are also antagonistic 
and intolerant. You know who I'm talking about. One group is a problem that you 
caused yourself by that agreement between the Global Community and Israel. The 
Jews have no need for us, no reason to join. They still believe in the one true God 
and a Messiah who's supposed to come in the sky by and by. I don't know what your 
plan is after the contract runs out, but I could sure use some ammunition against 
them. 
¡§The other bunch are these Christians who call themselves tribulation saints. 
They're the ones who think the Messiah already came and raptured his church and 
they missed it. I figure if they are right, they're kidding themselves to think he'd 
give them another chance, but you know as well as I do they're growing like 
wildfire. The strange thing is, a whole bunch of their converts are Jews. They've got 
these two nuts at the Wailing Wall telling everybody that the Jews are halfway there 
with their belief in the one true God, but that Jesus is his Son, that he came back, 
and that he's coming back again.¡¨ 
¡§Peter, my friend, this should not be strange doctrine to you as a former Catholic.¡¨ 
¡§I didn't say it was strange to me. I just never realized the depth of the intolerance 
that we Catholics had and that those tribulation saint-types have now.¡¨ 
¡§You have noticed the intolerance too?¡¨ 
¡§Who hasn't? These people take the Bible literally. You've seen their propaganda 
and heard their preachers at the big rallies. There are Jews buying into this stuff by 
the tens of thousands. Their intolerance hurts us.¡¨ 
¡§How so?¡¨ 

¡§You know. The secret to our success, the enigma that is One World Faith, is 
simply that we have broken down the barriers that used to divide us. Any religion 
that believes there's only one way to God is, by definition, intolerant. They become 
enemies of One World Faith and thus the global community as a whole. Our 
enemies are your enemies. We have to do something about them.¡¨ 
¡§What do you propose?¡¨ 
¡§I was about to ask you that very question, Nicolae.¡¨ 
Rayford could only imagine Nicolae wincing at Mathews' referring to him by his 
first name. 
¡§Believe it or not, my friend, I have already given this a great deal of thought.¡¨ 
¡§You have?¡¨ 
¡§I have. As you say, your enemies are my enemies. Those two at the Wailing Wall, 
the ones the so-called saints refer to as the witnesses, have meant no end of grief for 
me and my administration. I do not know where they come from or what they are up 
to, but they have terrorized the people of Jerusalem, and more than once they have 
made me look bad. This group of fundamentalists, the ones who are converting so 
many Jews, look to these two as heroes.¡¨ 
¡§So, what conclusion have you come to?¡¨ 
¡§Frankly, I have been considering more legislation. Conventional wisdom says you 
cannot legislate morale. I happen not to believe that. I admit my dreams and goals 
are grandiose, but I will not be deterred. I foresee a global community of true peace 
and harmony, a Utopia where people live together for the good of each other. When 
that was threatened by insurrection forces from three of our ten regions, I 
immediately retaliated. In spite of my long-standing and most sincere opposition to 
war, I made a strategic decision. Now I am legislating morale. People who want to 
get along and live together will find me most generous and conciliatory. Those who 
want to cause trouble will be gone. It is as simple as that.¡¨ 
¡§So, what are you saying, Nicolae? You're going to wage war on the 
fundamentalists?¡¨ 
¡§In a sense I am. No, we will not do it with tanks and bombs. But I believe the time 
has come to enforce rules for the new Global Community. As this would seem to 
benefit you as much as it would benefit me, I would like you to cooperate in 
forming and heading an organization of elite enforcers, if you will, of pure thought.¡¨ 
¡§How are you defining 'pure thought'?¡¨ 
¡§I foresee a cadre of young, healthy, strong men and women so devoted to the cause 
of the Global Community that they would be willing to train and build themselves 
to the point where they will be eager to make sure everyone is in line with our 
objectives.¡¨ 
Rayford heard someone rise and begin pacing. He assumed it was Mathews, 

warming to the idea. ¡§These would not be uniformed people, I assume.¡¨ 
¡§No. They would blend in with everyone else, but they would be chosen for their 
insight and trained in psychology. They would keep us informed of subversive 
elements who oppose our views. Surely you agree that we are long past the time 
where we can tolerate the extreme negative by-product of free speech run amok.¡¨ 
¡§Not only do I agree,¡¨ Mathews said quickly, ¡§but I stand ready to assist in any way 
possible. Can One World Faith help seek out candidates? train them? house them? 
clothe them?¡¨ 
¡§I thought you were running short of funds,¡¨ Carpathia said, chuckling. 
¡§This will only result in more income for us. When we eliminate the opposition, 
everyone benefits.¡¨ 
Rayford heard Carpathia sigh. ¡§We would call them the GCMM. The Global 
Community Morale Monitors.¡¨ 
¡§That makes them sound a little soft, Nicolae.¡¨ 
¡§Precisely the idea. We do not want to call them the secret police, or the thought 
police, or the hate police, or any kind of police. Make no mistake. They will be 
secret. They will have power. They will be able to supersede normal due cause in 
the interest of the better good for the global community.¡¨ 
¡§To what limit?¡¨ 
¡§No limit.¡¨ 
¡§They would carry weapons?¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§And they would be allowed to use these to what extent?¡¨ 
¡§That is the beauty of it, Pontiff Mathews. By selecting the right young people, by 
training them carefully in the ideal of a peaceful Utopia, and by giving them 
ultimate capital power to mete out justice as they see fit, we quickly subdue the 
enemy and eliminate it. We should foresee no need of the GCMM within just a few 
years.¡¨ 
¡§Nicolae, you're a genius.¡¨ 
Buck was disappointed. When it came time to run Hattie back up to Milwaukee, he 
felt little progress had been made. She had a lot of questions about just what it was 
these women did with their time. She was intrigued by the idea of Bible studies. 
And she had mentioned her envy of having close friends of the same sex who 
seemed to really care about each other. 
But Buck had been hoping there would have been some breakthrough. Maybe 
Hattie would have promised not to have an abortion or broken down and become a 
believer. He tried to push from his mind that Chloe might get the idea of taking and 

raising as their own the unwanted baby Hattie was carrying. He and Chloe were 
close to a decision about whether to bring a baby into this stage of history, but he 
hardly wanted to consider raising the child of the Antichrist. 
Hattie thanked everyone and climbed into the Range Rover with the women. Buck 
implied he was going to take one of the other cars back to the Global Community 
Weekly office, but instead he drove to the church. He stopped on the way for a treat 
for his friend, and within minutes he had gone through the labyrinth that took him to 
the inner sanctum of Rabbi Tsion Ben-Judah's personal study chamber. 
Every time Buck sneaked into that place, he was certain that claustrophobia, 
loneliness, fear, and grief would have overcome his friend. Without fail, however, it 
was Buck who was warmed by these visits. Tsion was hardly gleeful. He did not 
laugh much, nor did he offer a huge smile when Buck appeared. His eyes were red, 
and his face showed the lines of the recently bereaved. But he was also staying fit. 
He worked out, running in place, doing jumping jacks, stretching, and who knew 
what else. He told Buck he did this for at least an hour a day, and it showed. He 
seemed in a better frame of mind each time Buck saw him, and he never 
complained. That afternoon Tsion seemed genuinely pleased to have a visitor. 
¡§Cameron,¡¨ he said, ¡§were I not living with a heaviness of soul right now, certain 
parts of this place, even its location, would be paradise. I can read, I can study, I can 
pray, I can write, I can communicate by phone and computer. It is a scholar's dream. 
I miss the interaction with my colleagues, especially the young students who helped 
me. But Amanda and Chloe are wonderful students themselves.¡¨ 
He greedily joined Buck in their fast-food snack. ¡§I need to talk about my family. I 
hope you don't mind.¡¨ 
¡§Tsion, you may talk about your family with me anytime you want. You should 
forgive me for not being more diligent in asking.¡¨ 
¡§I know you, like many others, wonder if you should bring up such a painful 
subject. As long as we do not dwell on how they died, I am most pleased to talk 
about my memories. You know I raised my son and daughter from the ages of eight 
and ten to fourteen and sixteen. They were my wife's children from her first 
marriage. Her husband was killed in a construction accident. The children did not 
accept me at first, but I won them over by my love for her. I did not try to take the 
place of their father or pretend I was in charge of them. Eventually they referred to 
me as their father, and it was one of the proudest days of my life.¡¨ 
¡§Your wife seemed like a wonderful woman.¡¨ 
¡§She was. The children were wonderful too, though my family was human just like 
anyone else. I do not idealize them. They were all very bright. That was a joy to me. 
I could converse with them about deep things, complicated things. My wife herself 
had taught at the college level before having children. The children were both in 
special private schools and were exceptionally good students. Most important of all, 
when I began to tell them what I was learning in my research, they never once 

accused me of heresy or of turning my back on my culture, my religion, or my 
country. They were bright enough to see that I was discovering the truth. I did not 
preach at them, did not try to unduly influence them. I would merely read them 
passages and say, 'What do you deduce from this? What is the Torah saying here 
about qualifications for Messiah?' I was so fervent in my Socratic method that at 
times I believe they came to my ultimate conclusions before I did. When the 
Rapture occurred, I immediately knew what had happened. In some ways I was 
actually disappointed to find that I had failed my family and that all three of them 
had been left behind with me. I would have missed them, as I miss them now, but it 
also would have been a blessing to me had any of them seen the truth and acted 
upon it before it was too late.¡¨ 
¡§You told me they all became believers shortly after you did.¡¨ 
Tsion stood and paced. ¡§Cameron, I do not understand how anyone with any 
exposure to the Bible could doubt the meaning of the mass vanishings. Rayford 
Steele, with his limited knowledge, knew because of the testimony of his wife. I, 
above all people, should have known. And yet you see it all around you. People are 
still trying to explain it away. It breaks my heart.¡¨ 
Tsion showed Buck what he was working on. He had nearly completed the first 
booklet in what he hoped would be a series from Bruce's writings. ¡§He was a 
surprisingly adept scholar for a young man,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§He was not the linguist 
that I am, and so I am adding some of that to his work. I think it makes for a better 
final product.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure Bruce would agree,¡¨ Buck said. 
Buck wanted to broach the subject of Tsion's helping the church, remotely of 
course, locate a new pastor. How perfect if it could be Tsion! But that was out of the 
question. Anyway, Buck did not want anything to interrupt Tsion's important work. 
¡§You know, Tsion, that I will likely be the first to join you here on a permanent 
basis.¡¨ 
¡§Cameron, I cannot see you as content to hide out.¡¨ 
¡§It'll drive me crazy, there's no doubt about that. But I have begun to get careless. 
Riskier. It's bound to catch up with me.¡¨ 
¡§You will be able to do what I do on the Internet,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§I am communicating 
with many hundreds already, just by learning a few tricks. Imagine what you can do 
with the truth. You can write the way you used to write, with total objectivity and 
seriousness. You will not be influenced by the owner of the paper.¡¨ 
¡§What was that you said about the truth?¡¨ 
¡§You can write the truth, that's all.¡¨ 
Buck sat and began noodling on paper. He drew the cover of a magazine and called 
it simply ¡§Truth.¡¨ He was excited. 

¡§Look at this. I could design the graphics, write the copy, and disseminate it on the 
Net. According to Donny Moore, it could never be traced back here.¡¨ 
¡§I don't want to see you forced into self-incarceration,¡¨ Ben-Judah said. ¡§But I 
confess I would enjoy the company.¡¨ 
CHAPTER NINETEEN 
RAYFORD was proud of Hattie Durham. From what he could gather in New 
Babylon, she had pulled another fast one on Nicolae and his henchman Leon 
Fortunato. Apparently she had flown from Milwaukee to Boston, but rather than 
taking her connecting flight on to Baghdad, she had stopped somewhere. 
Rayford had been out of hearing range, of course, when the meetings with Peter 
Mathews were continued at New Babylon headquarters. All he knew was that there 
was great consternation around the place, especially among Nicolae and Leon, that 
Hattie had slipped off schedule yet again. Though Nicolae had shown indifference 
to her, not knowing where she was made her a loose cannon and a potential 
embarrassment. 
When word finally arrived that she had a new itinerary, Carpathia himself asked to 
see Rayford in private. 
The new secretarial staff was in place and operational by the time Rayford entered 
Suite 216 and was granted audience with the potentate. 
¡§It is good to see you again, Captain Steele. I fear I have not been as forthcoming 
with my thanks for your service as I used to be, before so many distractions have 
come about. 
¡§Let me get straight to the point. I know that Ms. Durham once worked for you. In 
fact, you came to us based on her recommendation. I know also that she has at times 
confided in you. Thus, it should come as no surprise to you that there has been some 
trouble in paradise, as they say. Let me be frank. The fact is, I believe Ms. Durham 
always overestimated the seriousness of our personal relationship.¡¨ 
Rayford thought back to when Nicolae had seemed to proudly announce that Hattie 
was pregnant and that she was wearing his ring. But Rayford knew better than to try 
to catch the liar of liars in a lie. 
Carpathia continued: ¡§Ms. Durham should have realized that in a position such as 
the one I hold, there really is no room for a personal life that would enjoy the 
commitment required by a marriage and family. She seemed pleased with the 
prospect of bearing a child, my child. Thus, I did not discourage that or encourage 
some other option. Should she take the pregnancy to term, I would of course 
exercise my fiscal responsibility. However, it is unfair for her to expect me to 
devote the time that might be available to the normal father. 

¡§My advice to her would be to terminate the pregnancy. However, due to the fact 
that this result of our relationship is really her responsibility, I will leave that 
decision to her.¡¨ 
Rayford was puzzled and didn't try to hide it. Why was Carpathia telling him this? 
What assignment was going to fall to him? He didn't have long to wait. 
¡§I have needs like any other man, Captain Steele. You understand. I would never 
commit myself to just one woman, and I certainly made no such commitment to Ms. 
Durham. The fact is that I already have someone else with whom I am enjoying a 
relationship. Therefore, you can see my dilemma.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not sure I do,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Well, I have replaced Ms. Durham as my personal assistant. I sense that she is 
distraught from that and from what she has to deduce is a relationship that has 
soured. I do not see it as souring; I see us both moving on. But, as I say, as she saw 
it as more important a commitment than I did, she is thus more upset and 
disappointed at the conclusion of it.¡¨ 
¡§I need to ask you about the ring you gave her,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Oh, that is no problem. I will not be requiring that back. In fact, I always believed 
that the stone was much too large to be worn as an engagement ring. It clearly is 
decorative. She need not worry about returning that.¡¨ 
Rayford was getting the picture. Carpathia was going to call on him, as Hattie's old 
friend and boss, to deliver the news. Why else would he need all this information? 
¡§I will do the right thing by Ms. Durham, Captain Steele. You may be assured of 
that. I would not want her to become destitute. I know she is employable, probably 
not as a clerical person, but certainly in the aviation industry.¡¨ 
¡§Which has been devastated by the war, as you know,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Yes, but with her seniority and perhaps with some gentle pressure on my part...¡¨ 
¡§And so you're saying that you will give her some sort of severance or a stipend or 
settlement?¡¨ 
Carpathia seemed to brighten. ¡§Yes, if that will make it easier for her, I am happy to 
do that.¡¨ I should think you would be, Rayford thought. ¡§Captain Steele, I have an 
assignment for you¡X¡¨ 
¡§I deduced that.¡¨ 
¡§Of course, you would. You are a bright man. We have received word that Ms. 
Durham is back on her itinerary and is expected in Baghdad on a flight from Boston 
on Monday.¡¨ 
It finally hit Rayford why Hattie might have delayed her return. Perhaps she knew 
of Amanda's plans. It would be just like Amanda to arrange to meet her somewhere 
and accompany her back. Amanda would have had an ulterior motive, of course: to 

keep Hattie from visiting a reproductive clinic. She also would have wanted to 
continue expressing love to her. Rayford decided against telling Carpathia he was 
headed to the airport in Baghdad Monday anyway to pick up his own wife. 
¡§Assuming you are free, Captain Steele, and I will make sure that you are, I would 
ask that you would meet Miss Durham's plane. As her old friend, you will be the 
right one to break this news to her. Her belongings have been delivered to one of the 
condominiums in your building. She will be allowed to stay there for a month 
before deciding where she would like to relocate.¡¨ 
Rayford interrupted. ¡§Excuse me, but are you asking me to do something that you 
yourself should be doing?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, make no mistake, Captain Steele. I am not afraid of this confrontation. It 
would be most distasteful for me, yes, but I recognize my responsibility here. It is 
just that I am under such crushing deadlines for important meetings. We have 
established many new directives and legislative encyclicals in light of the recent 
insurrection, and I simply cannot be away from the office.¡¨ 
Rayford thought Carpathia's meeting with Hattie Durham might have taken less 
time than the meeting they were conducting right then. But what was the sense of 
arguing with a man like this? 
¡§Any questions, Captain Steele?¡¨ 
¡§No. It's all very clear to me.¡¨ 
¡§You will do it then?¡¨ 
¡§I was not under the impression I had a choice.¡¨ 
Carpathia smiled. ¡§You have a good sense of humor, Captain Steele. I would not 
say your job depends on it, but I appreciate that your military background has 
trained you to realize that when a directive is given, it is to be carried out. I want 
you to know that I appreciate it.¡¨ 
Rayford stared at him. He willed himself not to say the obligatory, ¡§You're 
welcome.¡¨ He nodded and stood. 
¡§Captain Steele, might I ask you to remain seated for a moment.¡¨ 
Rayford sat back down. What now? Is this the beginning of the end? 
¡§I would like to ask you about your relationship with Cameron Williams.¡¨ Rayford 
did not respond at first. Carpathia continued. ¡§Sometimes known as Buck Williams. 
He was formerly a senior staff writer for Global Weekly, now Global Community 
Weekly. He is my publisher there.¡¨ 
¡§He's my son-in-law,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§And can you think of any reason why he would not have shared that happy news 
with me?¡¨ 
¡§I suppose you'll have to ask him that, sir.¡¨ 

¡§Well, then perhaps I should ask you. Why would you not have shared that with 
me?¡¨ 
¡§It's just personal family business,¡¨ Rayford said, trying to remain calm. ¡§Anyway, 
with him serving you at such a high level, I assumed you would become aware of it 
soon enough.¡¨ 
¡§Does it happen that he shares your religious beliefs?¡¨ 
¡§I prefer not to speak for Buck.¡¨ 
¡§I will take that as a yes.¡¨ Rayford stared at him. Carpathia continued, ¡§I am not 
saying that this is necessarily a problem, you understand.¡¨ I understand all right, 
Rayford thought. ¡§I was just curious,¡¨ Carpathia concluded. He smiled at Rayford, 
and the pilot read everything in that smile that the Antichrist implied. ¡§I will look 
forward to a report of your meeting with Miss Durham, and I have full confidence 
that it will be successful.¡¨ 
Buck was at the Chicago office of Global Community Weekly when he took a call 
from Amanda on his private phone. ¡§I got the strangest call from Rayford,¡¨ she 
said. ¡§He asked if I had hooked up with Hattie on her flight out of Boston to 
Baghdad. I told him no. I thought she was already back there. He said he thought 
she was on another schedule now and that we would likely be arriving at about the 
same time. I asked him what was up, but he seemed rushed and didn't feel free to 
take the time to tell me. Do you know what's happening?¡¨ 
¡§This is all news to me, Amanda. Did your flight refuel in Boston as well?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. You know New York is completely shut down. So is Washington. I don't 
know if these planes can go all the way from Milwaukee to Baghdad.¡¨ 
¡§What would have taken Hattie so long to get back there?¡¨ 
¡§I have no idea. If I had known she was going to delay her return, I would have 
offered to have flown with her. We need to maintain contact with that girl.¡¨ 
Buck agreed. ¡§Chloe misses you already. She and Tsion are working hard on some 
New Testament curriculum. It's almost as if they're in the same room, though they're 
at least a quarter of a mile apart.¡¨ 
¡§I know she's enjoying that,¡¨ Amanda said. ¡§I wish I could talk Rayford into letting 
me move back this way. I'd see less of him, but I don't see much of him in New 
Babylon either.¡¨ 
¡§Don't forget you can be in that 'same room' with Tsion and Chloe, no matter where 
you are now.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah,¡¨ she said, ¡§except that we're nine hours later than you guys.¡¨ 
¡§You'll just have to coordinate your schedules. Where are you now?¡¨ 
¡§We're over the continent. Should be touching down in an hour or so. It's what 

there, just a little after eight in the morning?¡¨ 
¡§Right. The Tribulation Force is about as spread out as it's been for a while. Tsion 
seems productive and contented, if not happy. Chloe is at Loretta's and excited 
about her study and her teaching opportunities, though she knows she may not 
always be free, legally, to do that. I'm here, you're there, and you'll be meeting up 
with Rayford before you know it. I guess we're all present and accounted for.¡¨ 
¡§I sure hope Rayford's right about Hattie,¡¨ Amanda said. ¡§It'll be handy if he can 
pick us both up.¡¨ 
It was time for Rayford to head for Baghdad. He was confused. Why had Hattie 
remained incommunicado in Denver for so long and then misled Fortunato about 
her return flight when she did reestablish contact? If it wasn't for the purpose of 
hooking up with Amanda, what was it? What would have interested her in Boston? 
Rayford couldn't wait to see Amanda. It had been only a few days, but they were 
still newlyweds, after all. 
He did not relish his assignment with Hattie, especially with Amanda getting in at 
the same time. One thing he could justify, however, based on what he had been told 
about Hattie's encounter with Loretta, Chloe, and Amanda at the safe house, was 
that Hattie would be comforted by Amanda's presence. 
The question was, would this word from Rayford be bad news for Hattie? It might 
make her future easier to accept. She knew it was over. She feared Carpathia might 
not let her go. She would be offended, of course, insulted. She wouldn't want his 
ring or his money or his condo. But at least she would know. To Rayford's male 
mind, this seemed a practical solution. He had learned enough from Irene and 
Amanda over the years, however, to know that regardless of how unattractive 
Nicolae Carpathia had become to Hattie, still she would be hurt and would feel 
rejected. 
Rayford phoned Hattie's driver. ¡§Could you drive me, or could I borrow your car? 
I'm to pick up Miss Durham in Baghdad and also my¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, sorry sir. I'm no longer Miss Durham's driver. I drive for someone else in the 
executive suite.¡¨ 
¡§You know where I could get wheels then?¡¨ 
¡§You could try the motor pool, but that takes awhile. Lots of paperwork, you 
know.¡¨ 
¡§I don't have that kind of time. Any other suggestions?¡¨ Rayford was angry with 
himself for not planning better. 
¡§If the potentate called the motor pool, you'd have a vehicle as quick as you wanted 
it.¡¨ 
Rayford phoned Carpathia's office. The secretary said he was unavailable. 

¡§Is he there?¡¨ Rayford asked. 
¡§He is here, sir, but as I said, he's not available.¡¨ 
¡§This is sort of urgent. If he's at all interruptible, I'd appreciate it if you'd let me talk 
to him for just a second.¡¨ 
When the secretary came back on the line, she said, ¡§The potentate wants to know if 
you could drop by his office for a moment before you finish your assignment for 
him.¡¨ 
¡§I'm a little short of time, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§I'll tell him you'll be here then.¡¨ 
Rayford was three blocks from Carpathia's building. He hurried down in the 
elevator and jogged toward headquarters. He had a sudden thought and grabbed his 
phone. As he ran, he called McCullum. ¡§Mac? Are you free right now? Good! I 
need a chopper ride to Baghdad. My wife's coming in, and I'm supposed to meet 
Hattie Durham as well. Rumors about her? I'm not at liberty to say anything, Mac. 
I'll be in Carpathia's office in a few minutes. Meet you on the helipad? Good! 
Thanks!¡¨ 
Buck was working on his laptop with his office door shut when the machine 
signaled that he had incoming, real-time mail. He liked this feature. It was like 
being on a chat line with just one person. The message was from Tsion. He asked, 
¡§Shall we try the video feature?¡¨ 
Buck typed, ¡§Sure.¡¨ And he tapped in the code. It took a few minutes to program 
itself, but then Tsion's image flickered on the screen. Buck tapped in, ¡§Is that you, 
or am I looking in the mirror?¡¨ 
Tsion responded, ¡§It's me. We could use the audio and talk to each other, if you're in 
a secure area.¡¨ 
¡§Better not,¡¨ Buck tapped in. ¡§Did you want something specific?¡¨ 
¡§I would like a companion for breakfast,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§I'm feeling much better 
today, but I'm getting a little claustrophobic here. I know you can't sneak me out, 
but could you get in without Loretta suspecting?¡¨ 
¡§I'll try. What would you like for breakfast?¡¨ 
¡§I have cooked up something American just for you, Buck. I'm turning my screen 
now to see if it can pick it up.¡¨ 
The machine was not really built to pan around a dark, underground shelter. Buck 
typed in: ¡§I can't see anything, but I'll trust you. Be there as soon as I can.¡¨ Buck 
told the receptionist he would be gone for a couple of hours, but as he was heading 
to the Range Rover, Verna Zee caught him. ¡§Where are you going?¡¨ she asked. 
¡§I'm sorry?¡¨ he said. 

¡§I want to know where you'll be.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not sure where all I'll be,¡¨ he said. ¡§The desk knows I'll be gone for a couple of 
hours. I don't feel obligated to share specifics.¡¨ 
Verna shook her head. 
Rayford slowed as he reached the grand entrance of Global Community 
headquarters. The compound had been set in an unusual area where upscale 
residences surrounded it. Something had caught Rayford's attention. Animal noises. 
Barking. He had been aware of dogs in the area. Many employees owned expensive 
breeds they enjoyed walking and tethering outside their places. They were 
showpieces of prosperity. He had heard one or two barking at times. But now they 
were all barking. They were noisy enough that he turned to see if he could detect 
what was agitating them so. He saw a couple of dogs jerk away from their owners 
and race down the street howling. 
He shrugged and entered the building. 
Buck considered swinging by Loretta's house and picking up Chloe. He would have 
to think of a story to tell Loretta at the church office. He wouldn't be able to park or 
walk into the church without her seeing him. Maybe he and Chloe would just spend 
some time with her and then appear to be leaving the church the back way. If no one 
was watching, they could slip down and see Tsion. It sounded like a plan. Buck was 
halfway to Mt. Prospect when he noticed something strange. Roadkill. Lots of it. 
And more potential roadkill skittering across the streets. Squirrels, rabbits, snakes. 
Snakes? He had seen few snakes in the Midwest, particularly this far north. The 
occasional garter snake was all. That's what these were, but why so many of them? 
Coons, possum, ducks, geese, dogs, cats, animals everywhere. He lowered the 
window of the Range Rover and listened. Huge clouds of birds swept from tree to 
tree. But the sky was bright. Cloudless. There seemed to be no wind. No leaf even 
shivered on a tree. Buck waited at a stoplight and noticed that, despite the lack of 
wind, the streetlights swayed. Signs bent back and forth. Buck blew the light and 
raced toward Mt. Prospect. 
Rayford was ushered into Carpathia's office. The potentate had several VIPs around 
a conference table. He quickly pulled Rayford aside. ¡§Thank you for stopping in, 
Captain Steele. I just wanted to reiterate my wish that I not have to face Ms. 
Durham. She may want to talk to me. That will be out of the question. I¡X¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me,¡¨ Leon Fortunato interrupted, ¡§but Potentate, sir, we're getting some 
strange readouts on our power meters.¡¨ 
¡§Your power meters?¡¨ Carpathia asked, incredulous. ¡§I leave maintenance to you 
and your staff, Leon¡X¡¨ 

¡§Sir!¡¨ the secretary said. ¡§An emergency call for you or Mr. Fortunato from the 
International Seismograph Institute.¡¨ 
Carpathia looked irritated and whirled to face Fortunato. ¡§Take that, will you, 
Leon? I am busy here.¡¨ 
Fortunato took the call and appeared to want to keep quiet until he blurted, ¡§What? 
What?!¡¨ 
Now Carpathia was angry. ¡§Leon!¡¨ 
Rayford moved away from Carpathia and looked out the window. Below, dogs ran 
in circles, their owners chasing them. Rayford reached in his pocket for his cell 
phone and quickly called McCullum. Carpathia glared at him. ¡§Captain Steele! I 
was talking to you here¡X¡¨ 
¡§Mac! Where are you? Start 'er up. I'm on my way now!¡¨ 
Suddenly the power went out. Only battery-operated lights near the ceiling shined, 
and the bright sun flooded through the windows. The secretary screamed. Fortunato 
turned to Carpathia and tried to tell him what he had just heard. Carpathia shouted 
above the din. ¡§I would like order in here, please!¡¨ 
And as if someone had flipped a switch, the day went black. Now even the grown 
men moaned and shrieked. Those battery-operated lights in the corner cast a 
haunting glow on the building, which began to shudder. Rayford made a dash for 
the door. He sensed someone right behind him. He pushed the elevator button and 
then smacked himself in the head, remembering there was no power. He dashed 
upstairs to the roof, where McCullum had the chopper blades whirring. 
The building shifted under Rayford like the surf. The chopper, resting on its skis, 
dipped first to the left and then to the right. Rayford reached for the opening, seeing 
Mac's wide eyes. As Rayford tried to climb in, he was pushed from behind and flew 
up behind Mac. Nicolae Carpathia was scrambling in. ¡§Lift off!¡¨ he shouted. 
¡§Liftoff!¡¨ 
McCullum raised the chopper about a foot off the roof. ¡§Others are coming!¡¨ he 
shouted. 
¡§No more room!¡¨ Carpathia hollered. ¡§Lift off!¡¨ 
As two young women and several middle-aged men grabbed the struts, Mac pulled 
away from the building. As he banked left, his lights illuminated the roof, where 
others came shrieking and crying out the door. As Rayford watched in horror, the 
entire eighteen-story building, filled with hundreds of employees, crashed to the 
ground in a mighty roar and a cloud of dust. One by one the screaming people 
hanging from the chopper fell away. 
Rayford stared at Carpathia. In the dim light from the control panel he saw no 
expression. Carpathia simply appeared busy about strapping himself in. Rayford 
was ill. He had seen people die. Carpathia had ordered Mac away from people who 

might have been saved. Rayford could have killed the man with his bare hands. 
Wondering if he wouldn't have been better off to have died in the building himself, 
Rayford shook his head and resolutely fastened his seat belt. ¡§Baghdad!¡¨ he 
shouted. ¡§Baghdad Airport!¡¨ 
Buck had known exactly what was coming and had been speeding through lights 
and stop signs, jumping curbs, and going around cars and trucks. He wanted to get 
to Chloe at Loretta's house first. He reached for his phone, but he had not stored 
speed-dial numbers yet, and there was no way he could drive this quickly and punch 
in an entire number at the same time. He tossed the phone on the seat and kept 
going. He was going through an intersection when the sun was snuffed out. Day 
went to night in an instant, and power went out all over the area. People quickly 
turned on their headlights, but Buck saw the crevasse too late. He was heading for a 
fissure in the road that had opened before him. It looked at least ten feet wide and 
that deep. He figured if he dropped into it he would be killed, but he was going too 
fast to avoid it. He wrenched the wheel to the left and the Range Rover rolled over 
completely before plunging down into the hole. The passenger-side air bag 
deployed and quietly deflated. It was time to find out what this car was made of. 
Ahead of him the gap narrowed. There would be no going out that way unless he 
could start going up first. He pushed the buttons that gave him all-wheel drive and 
stick shift, shifted into low gear, crimped the front wheels slightly to the left, and 
floored the accelerator. The left front tire bit into the steep bank of the crevasse, and 
suddenly Buck shot almost straight up. A small car behind him dropped front first 
into the hole and burst into flames. 
The ground shifted and broke up. A huge section of sidewalk pushed up from the 
ground more than ten feet and toppled into the street. 
The sound was deafening. Buck had never raised his window after listening to the 
animals, and now the thunderous crashing enveloped him as trucks flipped over and 
streetlamps, telephone poles, and houses fell. 
Buck told himself to slow down. Speed would kill him. He had to see what he was 
encountering and pick his way through it. The Range Rover bounced and twisted. 
Once he spun in a circle. People who had, for the moment, survived this were 
driving wildly and smashing into each other. 
How long would it last? Buck was disoriented. He looked at the compass on the 
dash and tried to stay pointed to the west. For a moment there seemed almost a 
pattern in the street. He went down then up then down then up as if on a roller 
coaster, but the great quake had just begun. What at first appeared as jagged peaks 
the Rover could handle quickly became swirling masses of mud and asphalt. Cars 
were swallowed up in them. 

Horror was not a good enough word for it. Rayford could not bring himself to speak 
to Carpathia or even to Mac. They were headed toward Baghdad Airport, and 
Rayford could not keep from staring at the devastation below. Fires had broken out 
all over the place. They illuminated car crashes, flattened buildings, the earth roiling 
and rolling like an angry sea. What appeared a huge ball of a gasoline fire caught 
his eye. There, hanging in the sky so close it seemed he could touch it, was the 
moon. The bloodred moon. 
Buck was not thinking of himself. He was thinking of Chloe. He was thinking of 
Loretta. He was thinking of Tsion. Could God have brought them through all this 
only to let them die in the great earthquake, the sixth Seal Judgment? If they all 
went to be with God, so much the better. Was it too much to ask that it be painless 
for his loved ones? If they were to go, he prayed, ¡§Lord, take them quickly.¡¨ 
The quake roared on and on, a monster that gobbled everything in sight. Buck 
recoiled in horror as his headlights shone on a huge house dropping completely 
underground. How far was he from Chloe at Loretta's? Would he have a better 
chance of getting to Loretta and Tsion at the church? Soon Buck found his the only 
vehicle in sight. No streetlights, no traffic lights, no street signs. Houses were 
crumbling. Above the road he heard screams, saw people running, tripping, falling, 
rolling. The Range Rover bounced and shook. He couldn't count the times his head 
hit the roof. Once a strip of curb rolled up and pushed the Range Rover on its side. 
Buck thought the end was near. He was not going to take it lying down. There he 
was, pressed up against the left side of the vehicle, strapped in. He reached for the 
seat belt. He was going to unfasten it and climb out the passenger's-side window. 
Just before he got it unlatched, the rolling earth uprighted the Range Rover, and off 
he drove again. Glass broke. Walls fell. Restaurants disappeared. Car dealerships 
were swallowed. Office buildings stood at jagged angles, then slowly toppled. 
Again Buck saw a gap in the road he could not avoid. He closed his eyes and braced 
himself, feeling his tires roll over an uneven surface and break glass and crumple 
metal. He looked around quickly as he took a left and saw that he had driven over 
the top of someone else's car. He hardly knew where he was. He just kept heading 
west. If only he could get to the church or to Loretta's house. Would he recognize 
either? Was there a prayer that anyone he knew anywhere in the world was still 
alive? 
Mac had caught a glimpse of the moon. Rayford could see he was awestruck. He 
maneuvered the chopper so Nicolae could see it too. Carpathia seemed to stare at it 
in wonder. It illuminated his face in its awful red glow, and the man had never 
looked more like the devil. 
Great sobs rose in Rayford's chest and throat. As he looked at the destruction and 
mayhem below, he knew the odds were against his finding Amanda. Lord, receive 

her unto yourself without suffering, please! 
And Hattie! Was it possible she might have received Christ before this? Could there 
have been somebody in Boston or on the plane who would have helped her make 
the transaction? 
Suddenly there came a meteor shower, as if the sky was falling. Huge flaming rocks 
streaked from the sky. Rayford had seen it go from day to night and now back to 
day with all the flames. 
Buck gasped as the Range Rover finally hit something that made it stop. The back 
end had settled into a small indentation, and the headlights pointed straight up. Buck 
had both hands on the wheel, and he was reclining, staring at the sky. Suddenly the 
heavens opened. Monstrous black and purple clouds rolled upon each other and 
seemed to peel back the very blackness of the night. Meteors came hurtling down, 
smashing everything that had somehow avoided being swallowed. One landed next 
to Buck's door, so hot that it melted the windshield and made Buck unlatch his seat 
belt and try to scramble out the right side. But as he did, another molten rock 
exploded behind the Range Rover and punched it out of the ditch. Buck was thrown 
into the backseat and hit his head on the ceiling. He was dazed, but he knew if he 
stayed in one place he was dead. He climbed over the seat and got behind the wheel 
again. He strapped himself in, thinking how flimsy that precaution seemed against 
the greatest earthquake in the history of mankind. 
There seemed no diminishing of the motion of the earth. These were not 
aftershocks. This thing simply was not going to quit. Buck drove slowly, the Range 
Rover's headlights jerking and bouncing crazily as first one side and then the other 
dropped and flew into the air. Buck thought he recognized a landmark: a low-slung 
restaurant at a corner three blocks from the church. Somehow he had to keep going. 
He carefully drove around and through destruction and mayhem. 
The earth continued to shift and roll, but he just kept going. Through his blown-out 
window he saw people running, heard them screaming, saw their gaping wounds 
and their blood. They tried to hide under rocks that had been disgorged from the 
earth. They used upright chunks of asphalt and sidewalk to protect them, But just as 
quickly they were crushed. A middle-aged man, shirtless and shoeless and bleeding, 
looked heavenward through broken glasses and opened his arms wide. He screamed 
to the sky, ¡§God, kill me! Kill me!¡¨ And as Buck slowly bounced past in the Range 
Rover, the man was swallowed into the earth. 
Rayford had lost hope. Part of him was praying that the helicopter would drop from 
the sky and crash. The irony was, he knew Nicolae Carpathia was not to die for yet 
another twenty-one months. And then he would be resurrected and live another 
three-and-a-half years. No meteor would smash that helicopter. And wherever they 
landed, they would somehow be safe. All because Rayford had been running an 

errand for the Antichrist. 
Buck's heart sank as he saw the steeple of New Hope Village Church. It had to be 
less than six hundred yards away, but the earth was still churning. Things were still 
crashing. Huge trees fell and dragged power lines into the street. Buck spent several 
minutes wending his way through debris and over huge piles of wood and dirt and 
cement. The closer he got to the church, the emptier he felt in his heart. That steeple 
was the only thing standing. Its base rested at ground level. The lights of the Range 
Rover illuminated pews, sitting incongruously in neat rows, some of them 
unscathed. The rest of the sanctuary, the high-arched beams, the stained-glass 
windows, all gone. The administration building, the classrooms, the offices were 
flattened to the ground in a pile of bricks and glass and mortar. 
One car was visible in a crater in what used to be the parking lot. The bottom of the 
car was flat on the ground, all four tires blown, axles broken. Two bare human legs 
protruded from under the car. Buck stopped the Range Rover a hundred feet from 
that mess in the parking lot. He shifted into park and turned off the engine. His door 
would not open. He loosened his belt and climbed out the passenger side. And 
suddenly the earthquake stopped. The sun reappeared. It was a bright, sunshiny 
Monday morning in Mt. Prospect, Illinois. Buck felt every bone in his body. He 
staggered over the uneven ground toward that little flattened car. When he was close 
enough, he saw that the crushed body was missing a shoe. The one that remained, 
however, confirmed his fear. Loretta had been crushed by her owp car. 
Buck stumbled and fell facedown in the dirt, something gashing his cheek. He 
ignored it and crawled to the car. He braced himself and pushed with all his might, 
trying to roll the vehicle off the body. It would not budge. Everything in him 
screamed against leaving Loretta there. But where would he take the body if he 
could free it? Sobbing now, he crawled through the debris, looking for any entrance 
to the underground shelter. Small recognizable areas of the fellowship hall allowed 
him to crawl around what was left of the flattened church. The conduit that led to 
the steeple had been snapped. He made his way over bricks and chunks of wood. 
Finally he found the vent shaft. He cupped his hands over it and shouted down into 
it, ¡§Tsion! Tsion! Are you there?¡¨ 
He turned and put his ear to the shaft, feeling cool air rush from the shelter. ¡§I am 
here, Buck! Can you hear me?¡¨ 
¡§I hear you, Tsion! Are you all right?¡¨ 
¡§I am all right! I cannot get out the door!¡¨ 
¡§You don't want to see what's up here anyway, Tsion!¡¨ Buck shouted, his voice 
getting weaker. 
¡§How is Loretta?¡¨ 
¡§Gone!¡¨ 

¡§Was it the great earthquake?¡¨ 
¡§It was!¡¨ 
¡§Can you get to me?¡¨ 
¡§I will get to you if it's the last thing I do, Tsion! I need you to help me look for 
Chloe!¡¨ 
¡§I am OK for now, Buck! I will wait for you!¡¨ 
Buck turned to look in the direction of the safe house. People staggered in ragged 
clothes, bleeding. Some dropped and seemed to die in front of his eyes. He didn't 
know how long it would take him to get to Chloe. He was sure he would not want to 
see what he found there, but he would not stop until he did. If there was one chance 
in a million of getting to her, of saving her, he would do it. 
The sun had reappeared over New Babylon. Rayford urged Mac McCullum to keep 
going toward Baghdad. Everywhere the three of them looked was destruction. 
Craters from meteors. Fires burning. Buildings flattened. Roads wasted. 
When Baghdad Airport came into sight, Rayford hung his head and wept. Jumbo 
jets were twisted, some sticking out of great cavities in the ground. The terminal 
was flattened. The tower was down. Bodies strewn everywhere. 
Rayford signaled Mac to set the chopper down. But as he surveyed the area, 
Rayford knew. The only prayer for Amanda or for Hattie was that their planes were 
still in the air when this occurred. 
When the blades stopped whirring, Carpathia turned to the other two. ¡§Do either of 
you have a working phone?¡¨ 
Rayford was so disgusted he reached past Carpathia and pushed open the door. He 
slipped out from behind Carpathia's seat and jumped to the ground. Then he reached 
in, loosened Carpathia's belt, grabbed him by the lapels, and yanked him out of the 
chopper. Carpathia landed on his seat on the uneven ground. He jumped up quickly, 
as if ready to fight. Rayford pushed him back up against the helicopter. 
¡§Captain Steele, I understand you are upset, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§Nicolae,¡¨ Rayford said, his words rushing through clenched teeth, ¡§you can 
explain this away any way you want, but let me be the first to tell you: You have 
just seen the wrath of the Lamb!¡¨ 
Carpathia shrugged. Rayford gave him a last shove against the helicopter and 
stumbled away. He set his face toward the airport terminal, a quarter mile away. He 
prayed this would be the last time he had to search for the body of a loved one in the 
rubble. 

EPILOGUE 
¡§WHEN He opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an 
hour. And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and to them were given 
seven trumpets. Then another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the 
altar. He was given much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all the 
saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. And the smoke of the 
incense, with the prayers of the saints, ascended before God from the angel's hand. 
Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it to the 
earth. And there were noises, thunderings, lightnings, and an earthquake. 
¡§So the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.¡¨ 
Revelation 8:1-6 

