THE MARK: 
The Beast Rules the World 
Book 8 of the Left Behind Series 
TIM LAHAYE & JERRY B. JENKINS 
Introdution 
FORTY-TWO MONTHS INTO THE TRIBULATION; 
THREE DAYS INTO THE GREAT TRIBULATION 
The Believers: 
Rayford Steele, mid-forties; former 747 captain for Pan-Continental; lost wife and 
son in the Rapture; former pilot for Global Community Potentate Nicolae Carpathia; 
original member of the Tribulation Force; an international fugitive in exile; suspect 
in the assassination of Nicolae Carpathia; residing at new safe house, Strong 
Building, Chicago 
Cameron (¡§Buck¡¨) Williams, early thirties; former senior writer for Global Weekly; 
former publisher of Global Community Weekly for Carpathia; original member of 
the Trib Force; editor of cybermagazine The Truth; fugitive in exile, Strong 
Building, Chicago 
Chloe Steele Williams, early twenties; former student, Stanford University; lost 
mother and brother in the Rapture; daughter of Rayford; wife of Buck; mother of 
fourteen-month-old Kenny Bruce; CEO of the International Commodity Co-op, an 
underground network of believers; original Trib Force member; fugitive in exile, 
Strong Building, Chicago 
Tsion Ben-Judah, late forties; former rabbinical scholar and Israeli statesman; 
revealed belief in Jesus as the Messiah on international TV¡Xwife and two teenagers 
subsequently murdered; escaped to U.S.; spiritual leader and teacher of Trib Force; 
cyberaudience of more than a billion daily; fugitive in exile, Strong Building, 
Chicago 
Dr. Chaim Rosenzweig, late sixties; Israeli botanist and statesman; discoverer of 
formula that made Israeli deserts bloom; former Global Weekly Man of the Year; 

confessed murderer of Carpathia; Strong Building, Chicago 
Mac McCullum, late fifties; pilot for Carpathia; New Babylon, United Carpathian 
States 
David Hassid, mid-twenties; high-level director for the GC; New Babylon 
Annie Christopher, early twenties; Global Community corporal; Phoenix 216 cargo 
chief; in love with David Hassid; unaccounted for, New Babylon 
Leah Rose, late thirties; former head nurse, Arthur Young Memorial Hospital, 
Palatine, Illinois; Strong Building, Chicago 
Mr. and Mrs. Lukas (¡§Laslos¡¨) Miklos, mid-fifties; lignite mining magnates; 
Greece, United Carpathian States 
Abdullah Smith, early thirties; former Jordanian fighter pilot; first officer, Phoenix 
216; New Babylon 
Ming Toy, twenty-two; widow; guard at the Belgium Facility for Female 
Rehabilitation (Buffer); on assignment at Carpathia funeral, New Babylon 
Chang Wong, seventeen; Ming Toy's brother; resides in China in the United Asian 
States; in New Babylon for Carpathia funeral with parents, who are unaware of his 
faith 
Professed Believer: 
Al B. (aka ¡§Albie¡¨), late forties; given name unknown; native of Al Basrah, north of 
Kuwait; former manager, Al Basrah Airstrip Tower; international black marketer; 
told Buck Williams he had become a believer from out of the Muslim faith by 
studying the teachings of Tsion Ben-Judah on the Internet; mark of the believer 
visible on his forehead; assisting Trib Force in northern Illinois, United North 
American States 
The Enemies: 
Nicolae Jetty Carpathia, thirty-six; former president of Romania; former secretarygeneral, 
United Nations; self-appointed Global Community potentate; assassinated 
in Jerusalem; resurrected at GC palace complex, New Babylon 
Leon Fortunato, early fifties; Carpathia's right hand; GC Supreme Commander; 
New Babylon 
The Undecided: 
Hattie Durham, early thirties; former Pan-Continental flight attendant; former 
personal assistant to Carpathia; last seen, United North American States 

Prologue From The Indwelling: 
The Announcer said, ¡§Ladies and gentlemen of the Global Community, your 
Supreme Potentate, His Excellency Nicolae Carpathia.¡¨ 
Nicolae took one step closer to the camera, forcing it to refocus. He looked directly 
into the lens. 
¡§My dear subjects,¡¨ he began. ¡§We have, together, endured quite a week, have we 
not? I was deeply touched by the millions who made the effort to come to New 
Babylon for what turned out to be, gratefully, not my funeral. The outpouring of 
emotion was no less encouraging to me. 
¡§As you know and as I have said, there remain small pockets of resistance to our 
cause of peace and harmony. There are even those who have made a career of 
saying the most hurtful, blasphemous, and false statements about me, using terms 
for me that no person would ever want to be called. 
¡§I believe you will agree that I proved today who I am and who I am not. You will 
do well to follow your heads and your hearts and continue to follow me. You know 
what you saw, and your eyes do not lie. I am also eager to welcome into the oneworld 
fold any former devotees of the radical fringe who have become convinced 
that I am not the enemy. On the contrary, I may be the very object of the devotion of 
their own religion, and I pray they will not close their minds to that possibility. 
¡§In closing let me speak directly to the opposition. I have always, without rancor or 
acrimony, allowed divergent views. There are those among you, however, who have 
referred overtly to me personally as the Antichrist and this period of history as the 
Tribulation. You may take the following as my personal pledge: 
¡§If you insist on continuing with your subversive attacks on my character and on the 
world harmony I have worked so hard to engender, the word tribulation will not 
begin to describe what is in store for you. If the last three and a half years are your 
idea of tribulation, wait until you endure the Great Tribulation.¡¨ 
ONE 
¡§Woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea! For the devil has come down to 
you, having great wrath, because he knows that he has a short time.¡¨ Revelation 
12:12 
It was midafternoon in New Babylon, and David Hassid was frantic. Annie was 
nowhere in sight and he had heard nothing from her, yet he could barely turn his 

eyes from the gigantic screens in the palace courtyard. The image of the 
indefatigable Nicolae Carpathia, freshly risen from three days dead, filled the screen 
and crackled with energy. David believed if he was within reach of the man he 
could be electrocuted by some demonic charge. 
With the disappearance of his love fighting for his attention, David found himself 
drawn past the jumbo monitors and the guards and the crowds to the edge of the bier 
that had just hours before displayed the quite dead body of the king of the world. 
Should David be able to see evidence that the man was now indwelt by Satan 
himself? The body, the hair, the complexion, the look were the same. But an 
intensity, an air of restlessness and alertness, flowed from the eyes. Though he 
smiled and talked softly, it was as if Nicolae could barely contain the monster 
within. Controlled fury, violence delayed, revenge in abeyance played at the 
muscles in his neck and shoulders. David half expected him to burst from his suit 
and then from his very skin, exposed to the world as the repulsive serpent he was. 
David's attention was diverted briefly by someone next to Carpathia, and when he 
glanced back at the still ruggedly handsome face, he was not prepared to have 
caught the eye of the enemy of his soul. Nicolae knew him, of course, but the look, 
though it contained recognition, did not carry the usual acceptance and 
encouragement David was used to. That very welcoming gaze had always unnerved 
him, yet he preferred it over this. For this was a transparent gaze that seemed to pass 
through David, which nearly moved him to step forward and confess his treachery 
and that of every comrade in the Tribulation Force. 
David reminded himself that not even Satan himself was omniscient, yet he found it 
difficult to accept that these eyes were not those of one who knew his every secret. 
He wanted to run but he dared not, and he was grateful when Nicolae turned back to 
the task at hand: his role as the object of the world's worship. 
David hurried back to his post, but someone had appropriated his golf cart, and he 
found himself peeved to where he wanted to pull rank. He flipped open his phone, 
had trouble finding his voice, but finally barked at the motor-pool supervisor, ¡§I had 
better have a vehicle delivered within 120 seconds or someone is going to find 
his¡X¡¨ 
¡§An electric cart, sir?¡¨ the man said, his accent making David guess he was an 
Aussie. ¡§Of course!¡¨ 
¡§They're scarce here, Director, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§They must be, because someone absconded with mine!¡¨ 
¡§But I was going to say that I would be happy to lend you mine, under the 
circumstances.¡¨ 
¡§The circumstances?¡¨ 
¡§The resurrection, of course! Tell you the truth, Director Hassid, I'd love to get in 
line myself.¡¨ 

¡§Just bring¡X¡¨ 
¡§You think I could do that, sir? I mean if I were in uniform? I know they've turned 
away civilians not inside the courtyard, and they're none too happy, but as an 
employee¡X¡¨ 
¡§I don't know! I need a cart and I need it now!¡¨ 
¡§Would you drive me to the venue before you go wherever it is you have to g¡X¡¨ 
¡§Yes! Now hurry!¡¨ 
¡§Are you thrilled or what, Director?¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ 
The man spoke slowly, condescendingly. ¡§A-bout-the-res-ur-rec-tion!¡¨ 
¡§Are you in your vehicle?¡¨ David demanded. 
¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ 
¡§That's what I'm thrilled about.¡¨ 
The man was still talking when David hung up on him and called crowd control. 
¡§I'm looking for Annie Christopher,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Sector?¡¨ 
¡§Five-three.¡¨ 
¡§Sector 53 has been cleared, Director. She may have been reassigned or relieved.¡¨ 
¡§If she were reassigned, you'd have it, no?¡¨ 
¡§Checking.¡¨ 
The motor-pool chief appeared in his cart, beaming. David boarded, phone still to 
his ear. ¡§Gonna see god,¡¨ the man said. 
¡§Yeah,¡¨ David said. ¡§Just a minute.¡¨ 
¡§Can you believe it? He's got to be god. Who else can he be? Saw it with my own 
two eyes, well, on TV anyway. Raised from the dead. I saw him dead, I know that. 
If I see him in person, there'll be no doubt now, will there? Eh?¡¨ 
David nodded, sticking a finger in his free ear. ¡§I say no doubt, eh?¡¨ 
¡§No doubt!¡¨ David shouted. ¡§Now give me a minute!¡¨ 
¡§Where we goin', sport?¡¨ 
David craned his neck to look at the man, incredulous that he was still speaking. 
¡§I say, where we going? Am I dropping you or you dropping me?¡¨ 
¡§I'm dropping you! Go where you want and get out!¡¨ 
¡§Sorry!¡¨ 
This wasn't how David normally treated people, even ignorant ones. But he had to 

hear whether Annie had been reassigned, and where. ¡§Nothing,¡¨ the crowd-control 
dispatcher on the phone told him. 
¡§Relieved then?¡¨ he said, relieved himself. 
¡§Likely. Nothing in our system on her.¡¨ 
David thought of calling Medical Services but scolded himself for overreacting. 
Motor-pool man deftly picked his way through the massive, dispersing crowd. At 
least most were dispersing. They looked shocked. Some were angry. They had 
waited hours to see the body, and now that Carpathia had arisen, they were not 
going to be able to see him, all because of where they happened to be in the throng. 
¡§This is as close as I hope to get in this thing then,¡¨ the man said, skidding to a stop 
so abruptly that David had to catch himself. ¡§You'll bring it back round then, eh, 
sir?¡¨ 
¡§Of course,¡¨ David said, trying to gather himself to at least thank the man. As he 
slid into the driver's seat he said, ¡§Been back to Australia since the reorganizing?¡¨ 
The man furrowed his brow and pointed at David, as if to reprimand him. ¡§Man of 
your station ought to be able to tell the difference between an Aussie and a New 
Zealander.¡¨ 
¡§My mistake,¡¨ David said. ¡§Thanks for the wheels.¡¨ 
As he pulled away the man shouted, ¡§'Course we're all proud citizens of the United 
Pacific States now anyway!¡¨ 
David tried to avoid eye contact with the many disgruntled mourners turned 
celebrants who tried to flag him, not for rides but for information. At times he was 
forced to brake to keep from running someone down, and the request was always 
the same. In one distinct accent or another, everyone wanted the same thing. ¡§Any 
way we can still get in to see His Excellency?¡¨ 
¡§Can't help you,¡¨ David said. ¡§Move along, please. Official business.¡¨ 
¡§Not fair! Wait all night and half the day in the blistering sun, and for what?¡¨ 
But others danced in the streets, making up songs and chants about Carpathia, their 
new god. David glanced again at the monstrous monitors where Carpathia was 
shown briefly touching hands as the last several thousand were herded through. To 
David's left, guards fought to block hopefuls from sneaking into the courtyard. 
¡§Line's closed!¡¨ they shouted over and over. 
On the screen, pilgrims swooned as they neared the bier, graced by Nicolae in his 
glory. Many crumbled from merely getting near him, waxing catatonic. Guards held 
them up to keep them moving, but when His Excellency himself spoke quietly to 
them and touched them, some passed out, deadweights in the guards' arms. 
Over Nicolae's cooing¡X¡§Good to see you. Thank you for coming. Bless you. Bless 
you.¡¨¡XDavid heard Leon Fortunato. ¡§Worship your king,¡¨ he said soothingly. 

¡§Bow before his majesty. Worship the Lord Nicolae, your god.¡¨ 
Dissonance came from the guards stuck with the responsibility of moving the mass 
of quivering, jellied humanity, catching them as they collapsed in ecstasy. 
¡§Ridiculous!¡¨ they grumbled to each other, live mikes sending the cacophony of 
Fortunato, Carpathia, and the complainers to the ends of the PA system. ¡§Keep 
moving. Come on now! There you go! Stand up! Move it along!¡¨ David finally 
reached sector 53, which was, as he had been told, deserted. The crowd-control 
gates had toppled, and the giant number placard had been trampled. David sat there, 
forearms resting on the cart's steering wheel. He shoved his uniform cap back on his 
head and felt the sting of the sun's UV rays. His hands looked like lobsters, and he 
knew he'd pay for his hours in the sun. But he could not find shade again until he 
found Annie. 
As crowds shuffled through and then around what had been her sector, David 
squinted at the ground, the asphalt shimmering. Besides the ice-cream and candy 
wrappers and drink cups that lay motionless in the windless heat was what appeared 
to be residue of medical supplies. He was about to step from the cart for a closer 
look when an elderly couple climbed aboard and asked to be driven to the airport 
shuttle area. 
¡§This is not a people mover,¡¨ he said absently, having enough presence to remove 
the keys before leaving the vehicle. 
¡§How rude!¡¨ the woman said. 
¡§Come on,¡¨ the man said. 
David marched to sector 53 and knelt, the heat sapping his energy. In the shadows 
of hundreds walking by, he examined the plastic empties of bandages, gauze, 
ointment, even tubing. Someone had been ministered to here. It didn't have to have 
been Annie. It could have been anyone. Still, he had to know. He made his way 
back to the cart, every seat but his now full. 
¡§Unless you need to go to Medical Services,¡¨ he said, punching the number into his 
phone, ¡§you're in the wrong cart.¡¨ 
In Chicago Rayford Steele found the Strong Building's ninth floor enough of a 
bonanza that he was able to push from his mind misgivings about Albie. The truth 
about his dark, little Middle Eastern friend would be tested soon enough. Albie was 
to ferry a fighter jet from Palwaukee to Kankakee, where Rayford would later pick 
him up in a Global Community helicopter. 
Besides discovering a room full of the latest desktop and minicomputers¡Xstill in 
their original packaging, Rayford found a small private sleeping room adjacent to a 
massive executive office. It was outfitted like a luxurious hotel room, and he rushed 
from floor to floor to find the same next to at least four offices on every level. 
¡§We have more amenities than we ever dreamed,¡¨ he told the exhausted Tribulation 
Force. ¡§Until we can blacken the windows, we'll have to get some of the beds into 

the corridors near the elevators where they can't be seen from the outside.¡¨ 
¡§I thought no one ever came near here,¡¨ Chloe said, Kenny sleeping in her lap and 
Buck dozing with his head on her shoulder. 
¡§Never know what satellite imaging shows,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§We could be sleeping 
soundly while GC Security and Intelligence forces snap our pictures from the 
stratosphere.¡¨ 
¡§Let me get these two to bed somewhere,¡¨ she said, ¡§before I collapse.¡¨ 
¡§I've moved furniture in my day,¡¨ Leah said, slowly rising. ¡§Where are these beds 
and where do we put them?¡¨ 
¡§I wish I could help,¡¨ Chaim said through clenched teeth, his jaw still wired shut. 
Rayford stopped him with a gesture. ¡§If you're staying with us, sir, you answer to 
me. We need you and Buck as healthy as you can be.¡¨ 
¡§And I need you alert for study,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§You made me cram for enough 
exams. Now you're in for the crash course of your life.¡¨ 
Rayford, Chloe, Leah, and Tsion spent half an hour moving beds up the elevator to 
makeshift quarters in an inner corridor on the twenty-fifth floor. By the time 
Rayford gingerly boarded the chopper balanced precariously on what served as the 
new roof of the tower, everyone was asleep save Tsion. The rabbi seemed to gain a 
second wind, and Rayford wasn't sure why. 
Rayford left the instrument panel lights off and, of course, the outside lights. He 
fired up the rotors but waited to lift off until his eyes had adjusted to the darkness. 
The copter had but ten feet of clearance on each side. Little was trickier¡Xespecially 
to a fixed-wing expert like Rayford¡Xthan the shifting currents inside what 
amounted to a cavernous smokestack. Rayford had seen choppers crash in wideopen 
spaces after merely hovering too long in one place. Mac McCullum had tried 
to explain the physics of it, but Rayford had not listened closely enough to grasp it. 
Something about the rotors sucking up air from beneath the craft, leaving it no 
buoyancy. By the time the pilot realized he was dropping through dead air of his 
own making, he had destroyed the equipment and often killed all on board. 
Rayford needed sleep as much as any of his charges, but he had to go get Albie. 
There was more to that too, of course. He could have called his friend and told him 
to lie low till the following evening. But Albie was new to the country and would 
have to fend for himself outside or bluff his way into a hotel. With Carpathia 
resurrected and the GC naturally on heightened alert, who knew how long he could 
pull off impersonating a GC officer? 
Anyway, Rayford had to know whether Albie was ¡§with him or agin him,¡¨ as his 
father used to say. He had been thrilled to see the mark of the believer on Albie's 
forehead, but much of what the man had done in the predawn hours confused 
Rayford and made him wonder. A wily, streetwise man like Albie¡Xone who had 
provided so much at high risk to himself¡Xwould be the worst kind of opponent. 

Rayford worried that he had unwittingly led the Tribulation Force into the lair of the 
enemy. 
As the chopper rumbled through the shaft at the top of the tower, Rayford held his 
breath. He had carefully set the craft as close to the middle of the space as he could, 
allowing him to use one corner for his guide as he rose. If he kept the whirring 
blades equidistant from the walls in the one corner, he should be centered until free 
of the building. 
How vulnerable and conspicuous could a man feel? He imagined David Hassid 
having miscalculated, trusting old information, not realizing that the GC itself knew 
Chicago was safe¡Xnot off-limits due to radiation. Rayford himself had overheard 
Carpathia say he had not used radiation on the city, at least initially. He wondered if 
the GC had planted such information just to lure in the insurgents and have them 
where they wanted them¡Xin one place for easy dispatch. 
With his helicopter free of the tower, Rayford still dared not engage the lights. He 
would stay low, hopefully beneath radar. He wanted to be invisible to satellite 
surveillance photography as well, but heat sensing had been so refined that the dark 
whirlybird would glow orange on a monitor. 
A chill ran up his back as he let his imagination run. Was he being followed by a 
half dozen craft just like his own? He wouldn't hear or see them. They could have 
waited nearby, even on the ground. How would he know? 
Since when did he manufacture trouble? There was enough real danger without 
concocting more. 
Rayford set the instrument panel lights at their lowest level and quickly saw he was 
off course. It was an easy fix, but so much for trusting his brain, even in a ship like 
this. Mac had once told him that piloting a helicopter was to flying a 747 as riding a 
bike was to driving a sport utility vehicle. From that Rayford assumed that he would 
do more work by the seat of his pants than by marrying himself to the instrument 
panel. But neither had he planned on flying blind over a deserted megalopolis in 
wee-hour blackness. He had to get to Kankakee, pick up Albie, and get back to the 
tower before sunup. He had not a minute to spare. The last thing he wanted was to 
be seen over a restricted area in broad daylight. Detected in the dead of night was 
one thing. He would take his chances, trust his instincts. But there would be no 
hiding under the sun, and he would die before he would lead anyone to the new safe 
house. 
In New Babylon frustrated supplicants had formed a new line, several thousand 
long, outside the Global Community Palace. GC guards traversed the length of it, 
telling people that the resurrected potentate would have to leave the courtyard when 
he had finished greeting those who happened to be in the right place at the right 
time. 
David detoured from his route to Medical Services to hear the response of the 
crowd. They did not move, did not disperse. The guards, their bullhorned messages 

ignored, finally stopped to listen. David, looking puzzled, pulled up behind one of 
the jeeps, and a guard shrugged as if as dumbfounded as Director Hassid. The guard 
with the loudspeaker said, ¡§Suit yourselves, but this is an exercise in futility.¡¨ 
¡§We have another idea!¡¨ shouted a man with a Hispanic accent. 
¡§I'm listening,¡¨ the guard said, as the crowd near him quieted. 
¡§We will worship the statue!¡¨ he said, and hundreds in line cheered. 
¡§What did he say? What did he say?¡¨ The question raced down the line in both 
directions. 
¡§Did not Supreme Commander Fortunato say we should do that?¡¨ the man said. 
¡§Where are you from, my friend?¡¨ the guard asked, admiration in his voice. 
¡§Mejico!¡¨ the man shouted in his native tongue, and many with him exulted. 
¡§You have the heart of the toreador!¡¨ the guard said. ¡§Let me check on it!¡¨ 
The news spread as the guard settled in his seat and talked into his phone. Suddenly 
he stood and gave the man a thumbs-up. ¡§You have been cleared to worship the 
image of His Excellency, the risen potentate!¡¨ 
The crowd cheered. 
¡§In fact, your leaders consider it a capital idea!¡¨ 
The crowd sang and chanted, edging closer and closer to the courtyard. 
¡§Please maintain order!¡¨ the guard urged. ¡§It will be more than an hour before you 
will be allowed in. But you will get your wish!¡¨ 
David shook his head as he executed a huge U-turn and headed to the courtyard. 
People along the way called out to him. ¡§Is it true? May we at least worship the 
statue?¡¨ 
David ignored most of them, but when clusters moved in front of his speeding cart, 
he was forced to brake before slipping around them. Occasionally he nodded, to 
their delight. They ran to get in a line that already ' stretched more than a quarter 
mile. Would this day ever end? 
TWO 
Rayford mentally kicked himself. He had vastly underestimated the time and his 
ability to pick up Albie, settle on the disposition of both the fighter jet and the Gulfstream, 
and get back to the new safe house before sunrise. The sun was already 
toying with the horizon. He patted his pants pocket for his phone. He felt for it in 
his flight bag, his jacket, on the floor. 
He wanted to swear, but since coming to his senses just days before, Rayford 

acknowledged that he needed a return to discipline. He had learned from an old 
friend in college something he had then rejected as too esoteric and way too touchyfeely. 
His broad-minded friend had called it his ¡§opposite trigger¡¨ mode, and while 
in it, he forced himself to respond in ways diametrically opposed to how he felt. If 
he wanted to shout, he whispered. If he wanted to smack someone, he gently 
caressed his or her shoulder. 
Rayford hadn't thought about that old friend or his crazy idea until the lonely, 
emotional flight from the Middle East to Greece and then to the United North 
American States. And now he decided to try it. He wanted to swear at himself for 
being shortsighted and for losing his phone. Instead, he surveyed his mind for an 
opposite response. One opposite of swearing was blessing, but whom would he 
bless? Another was praying. 
¡§Lord,¡¨ he began, ¡§once again I need some help. I'm mad at myself and have few 
options. I'm exhausted, but I need to know what to do.¡¨ 
Almost instantly Rayford remembered that Albie had his phone. Albie had a phone 
of his own, too, but in the bustle and grabbing of various items, Rayford had 
entrusted his to his friend. Sometime soon he would have to get someone to rig a 
radio base in the safe house with a secure channel to the chopper so he could 
communicate directly. Meanwhile, he couldn't tell the rest of the Tribulation Force 
where he was or that he would not be returning until at least late that same evening. 
Neither could he determine whether Albie was all right. He would have to simply 
land, using his alias with the tower, and hope Albie was waiting for him up on their 
computers. ¡§She wouldn't be in the system yet,¡¨ he was told, ¡§even if she were 
here.¡¨ 
¡§You're not swiping bar codes on the badges of employees as they are admitted?¡¨ 
¡§They're not actually being admitted, Director. Everybody goes to triage, the living 
are treated, and the dead pronounced. Cataloging them is low on the priority list, but 
we'll eventually get everyone logged in.¡¨ 
¡§How will I know if she's there?¡¨ 
¡§You may come look, but don't interfere and keep out of the way.¡¨ 
¡§Where's triage?¡¨ 
¡§As far east as you can go from our main tent. We try to start 'em in the shade of 
three tents, but we're out of space and they're in and out of there as fast as we can 
move 'em.¡¨ 
¡§Mostly sunstroke?¡¨ David said. 
¡§Mostly lightning, Director.¡¨ 
David left messages on Annie's phone and tried every other source he could think of 
that might know her whereabouts. Medical Services was too busy to look her. 
¡§Tower to GC chopper! Do you copy?¡¨ 

¡§This is GC chopper, Kankakee,¡¨ Rayford said, trying to cover that he was rattled. 
¡§My apologies. Asleep at the stick here.¡¨ 
¡§Not literally, I hope.¡¨ 
¡§No, sir.¡¨ 
¡§State your business.¡¨ 
¡§Uh, yeah, civilian under the authority of Deputy Commander Marcus Elbaz.¡¨ 
¡§Mr. Berry?¡¨ 
¡§Roger.¡¨ 
¡§Deputy Commander Elbaz asks that we set your mind at ease about your phone.¡¨ 
¡§Roger that!¡¨ 
¡§Cleared for landing to the south where he will meet you in Hangar 2. You can 
appreciate we're shorthanded here. You can handle your own securing and 
refueling.¡¨ 
Ten minutes later Rayford asked Albie how long he thought he could keep up the 
ruse on the GC. ¡§As long as your comrade Hassid is in the saddle at the palace. He's 
a remarkable young man, Rayford. I confess I had to hold my breath more than once 
here. They were tough, short of personnel as they are. I had to go through two 
checkpoints.¡¨ 
Rayford squinted. ¡§They let me in without a second glance, and I hadn't even 
contacted the tower.¡¨ 
¡§That's because you're with me and a civilian.¡¨ 
¡§You convinced 'em, eh?¡¨ 
¡§Totally. But I have to hand it to your friend. Not only does he have me on the 
international GC database with name, rank, and serial number, but he also has me 
assigned to this part of the United North American States. I'm here because I'm 
supposed to be here. I check out better than most of the legitimate GC personnel.¡¨ 
¡§David's good,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§The best. I blustered and acted impatient and pretended they would get in trouble if 
they detained me too long. But they were unmoved¡Xuntil the second checkpoint 
ran me through the computer and reached David's database. Someday he'll have to 
tell me how he does that. He entered all of my information, and when my papers 
matched with what they saw on the screen, I was gold. Then I began barking orders, 
telling them to pave the way for you, that we had urgent business and must be on 
our way.¡¨ 
Rayford told Albie it would be impossible to return to the safe house until dark and 
that he might as well carry him back to Palwaukee so he could move the Gulfstream 
to Kankakee. 

¡§Would you rather have some fun?¡¨ Albie said. ¡§You want to see if GC has torched 
your old safe house yet and do it for them if not?¡¨ 
¡§Not a bad idea,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§If they just burned it, fine, but if they start combing 
it for evidence, I worry what we might have left.¡¨ 
¡§They don't have the personnel for that,¡¨ Albie said, moving toward the helicopter. 
¡§Fueled up?¡¨ Rayford nodded. 
¡§The fighter is too, ready whenever we need it.¡¨ Albie slung his bag over his 
shoulder, dug in it for Rayford's phone, and tossed it to him. 
¡§Three unanswered calls,¡¨ Rayford muttered as they boarded the chopper. ¡§Hope 
everything's all right in Chicago. When did the calls come?¡¨ 
¡§All three about half an hour ago, one right after the other. None showed phone 
numbers, so I didn't think I should answer for you.¡¨ 
They were strapped in now, but Rayford said, ¡§I'd better check with the safe house.¡¨ 
Tsion answered groggily. 
¡§I'm sorry to wake you, Doctor,¡¨ Rayford began. 
¡§Oh, Captain Steele, it's no trouble. I only just fell asleep. Chloe's phone, it was 
ringing and ringing, and she was sound asleep. No one roused; they are so 
exhausted. I was not able to get to it in time, but when it rang again, this time I 
hurried and carried it to a quiet place. Rayford, it was Miss Durham!¡¨ 
¡§You're sure?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, and she sounded desperate. I pleaded with her to tell me where she was and 
reminded her that we all love her and care about her and are praying for her, but she 
wanted only to talk to you. She said she had tried your phone, and I told her I would 
try too. I tried twice to no avail. Anyway, you have her number.¡¨ 
¡§I'll call her.¡¨ 
¡§And you'll let me know.¡¨ 
¡§Tsion, get some rest. You have so much to do, setting up your computer area, 
teaching Chaim¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Rayford, I am so excited about that that I can barely contain myself. And I 
have so much to communicate to my audience on the computer. But you must call 
Miss Durham, and yes, you're right. Unless there is a compelling reason why we 
should know, you can tell us when you return. Frankly, I expected you by now.¡¨ 
¡§I miscalculated, Tsion. I can't return until the sky is black. But I am available by 
phone now.¡¨ 
¡§And you have connected with your Middle Eastern friend.¡¨ 
¡§I have.¡¨ 
¡§And is he all right, Rayford? Forgive me, but he seemed preoccupied.¡¨ 

¡§Everything's fine here, Doctor.¡¨ 
¡§He is a new believer too, correct?¡¨ 
¡§Yes.¡¨ 
¡§And he will be staying with us?¡¨ 
¡§That's likely.¡¨ 
¡§Then I will look forward to training him as well.¡¨ 
David was aghast at Medical Services. He had visited their indoor facility many 
times, which, despite their thinning ranks, was pristine and shipshape. What had 
begun as the main first-aid station, which serviced dozens of others throughout the 
area during the Carpathia wake, now looked like a mobile army surgical hospital. 
The rest of the first-aid stations were being dismantled and leftover injured taken 
either to the courtyard triage center or into the indoor facility. 
Row upon row of makeshift cots snaked across the courtyard. ¡§Why aren't you 
moving these people inside?¡¨ David said, tugging at his stiff collar. 
¡§Why don't you manage your area and let us manage ours,¡¨ a doctor said, turning 
briefly from an ashen victim of the heat. 
¡§I don't mean to criticize. It's just that¡X¡¨ 
¡§It's just that we're all out here now,¡¨ the doctor said. ¡§At least most of us. The 
majority of the treatable cases are heatstroke and dehydration, and most of the 
casualties are lightning victims.¡¨ 
¡§I'm looking for¡X¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry, Director, but whoever you're looking for, you're going to have to find on 
your own. We don't care about their names or their nationalities. We're just trying to 
keep them alive. We'll deal with the paperwork later.¡¨ 
¡§I had an employee stationed at¡X¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry! It's not that I don't care, but I can't help you! Understand?¡¨ 
¡§She would have known how to avoid sun- or heatstroke.¡¨ 
¡§Good. Now, good-bye.¡¨ 
¡§She was at sector 53.¡¨ 
¡§Well, you don't want to hear about five-three,¡¨ the doctor said, turning back to his 
patient. 
¡§What about it?¡¨ 
¡§Lots of lightning victims. Big bolt there.¡¨ 
¡§Where would the victims have been taken?¡¨ 
The doctor was finished talking with David. He nodded to an assistant. ¡§Tell him.¡¨ 
A young man in scrubs spoke with a French accent. ¡§No specific place. Some came 

in here. Some were treated in that sector. Some inside.¡¨ 
David started on the cart but soon abandoned it to jog down the line of victims. This 
would be impossible. How could he tell who was who? Annie was in uniform, and 
while he was sure he could recognize her, with only shoes peeking out from sheets 
soaked to cool patients, he would have to check each face. And he would be 
interfering with the medical treatment. 
As he trotted along in the heat, David reached in his belt for his water bottle and 
found it empty. His throat was parched, and he knew his thirst trailed by several 
minutes his real need for water. When had he last taken a swig? When had he eaten? 
When had he slept? 
The huge screens showed Viv Ivins, Leon Fortunato, and Nicolae Carpathia moving 
the pilgrims along, cooing to them, blessing them, touching them. The waves of 
heat from the asphalt made David's uniform cling to him like a single, damp weight. 
He stopped and bent to catch his breath, but his throat felt swollen, his mouth 
unable to produce saliva, his windpipe constricted. Dizzy. Annie. Light-headed. 
Hot. Annie. Spinning. Thirst. Hands red. 
David pitched forward, his cap sliding off and tumbling before him. His mind told 
him to reach for it, but his hands stayed planted above his knees. Break your fall! 
Break your fall! But he could not. His arms would not move. His face would take 
the brunt of it. No, he could tuck his chin. 
The top of his head smacked the pavement, the jagged asphalt digging through his 
hair to his scalp. He shut his eyes in anticipation of the pain, and white streaks shot 
past his eyes. Hands still on his knees, his seat in the air, he slowly, slowly rolled 
sideways and crashed onto his hip. He opened his eyes and saw his own blood 
trickle past his face, quickly coagulating in a pool on the baked pavement. He tried 
to move, to speak. Unconsciousness pursued him, and all he could think of was that 
he was next in a long line of victims. 
¡§You want me to fly while you make your call?¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§Maybe you'd better,¡¨ Rayford said. They switched places as he punched in Hattie's 
number. She answered in a hoarse, panicked whisper on the first sound. 
¡§Rayford, where are you?¡¨ 
¡§I don't want to say, Hattie. Talk to me. Where are you?¡¨ 
¡§Colorado.¡¨ 
¡§Specifically.¡¨ 
¡§Pueblo, north end, I think.¡¨ 
¡§GC has you?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. And they're going to send me back to Buffer.¡¨ Rayford was silent. ¡§Don't 
leave me hanging, Rayford. We go back too far.¡¨ 

¡§Hattie, I don't know what to say.¡¨ 
¡§What?!¡¨ 
¡§What do you want me to do?¡¨ 
¡§Come get me! I can't go back to Belgium! I'll die there.¡¨ 
¡§What do you expect me to do?¡¨ 
¡§The right thing, Ray.¡¨ 
¡§In other words, jeopardize my life and expose the Force to¡X¡¨ 
Click. 
Rayford couldn't tell whether she hung up because he had insulted her or because 
she heard someone coming. He told Albie the conversation. 
¡§What are you going to do, my friend?¡¨ 
Rayford stared at Albie in the emerging light and shook his head. ¡§That woman has 
caused us no end of grief.¡¨ 
¡§But you care for her. You've told me before.¡¨ 
¡§I have?¡¨ 
¡§Bits and pieces. Maybe Mac told me.¡¨ 
¡§Mac doesn't know her.¡¨ 
¡§But he knows you, and you talk, no?¡¨ 
Rayford nodded. ¡§We know they let her out of Buffer, thinking she¡X¡¨ 
¡§Buffer?¡¨ 
¡§Belgium Facility for Female Rehabilitation.¡¨ 
¡§Ah, I'd better remember that.¡¨ 
¡§Anyway, we know they were hoping she would lead them to us at the gala in 
Jerusalem, but she¡X¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me, Rayford, but do you want me to set a course over the old safe house or 
just head directly for Palwaukee?¡¨ 
¡§Depends on whether I decide to go to Colorado.¡¨ 
¡§Your choice, but if I may say so, I expected you to be more decisive. I am just 
playacting, yet I appear more of a leader than you are. Your people admire and 
respect you¡Xit's obvious.¡¨ 
¡§They shouldn't. I¡X¡¨ 
¡§You've reconciled with them, Rayford. They forgave you. Now become their 
leader again. What are you going to do about this Hattie Durham? Decide. Tell me, 
tell the people in the Strong Building, and do it.¡¨ 
¡§I don't know, Albie.¡¨ 

¡§You'll never know. Just weigh your options, consider the pros and cons, and pull 
the trigger. Either way, the old safe house is fewer than ten minutes out of the way. 
Start with a small decision.¡¨ 
¡§Let's have a look at it.¡¨ 
¡§Good for you, Rayford.¡¨ 
¡§Don't patronize me, Albie. We're in a GC chopper. We won't look suspicious 
anyway.¡¨ 
¡§But you've made a decision. Now think aloud about the more important one. Are 
we going to Colorado?¡¨ 
¡§I was saying, rather than lead the GC to us, she went straight there. Her family is 
gone, but maybe she thought she could hook up with friends in Colorado. Who 
knows? I couldn't even tell you whether her confounding the GC was a stroke of 
genius or dumb luck, but I'd lean toward the latter.¡¨ 
¡§So she may be leading you to them rather than the other way round.¡¨ 
Rayford turned away from Albie and looked out the window, praying silently. It 
hadn't been that many years since his lust for Hattie Durham had almost cost him 
his marriage. He took the blame for that, but since then she had been nothing but 
trouble. He and the others in the Tribulation Force had loved her and counseled her, 
provided for her, pled with her to receive Christ. But she would not be persuaded, 
and she pulled dangerous stunts that compromised the safety of the Force. For all he 
knew, she was the reason the GC had finally discovered the safe house. 
Rayford's phone chirped. ¡§Hattie?¡¨ 
¡§I heard footsteps. They've got me in a small room in a bunker about an hour south 
of Colorado Springs.¡¨ 
¡§I'm a long way from there.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, thank you, Rayford. I knew I could count¡X¡¨ 
¡§I haven't decided what I'm going to do, Hattie.¡¨ 
¡§Of course you have. You won't leave me here to be sent back to prison or worse. 
What do I have to do, promise to become a believer?¡¨ 
¡§Not unless you mean it.¡¨ 
¡§Well, if you don't come for me, you can kiss that idea good-bye.¡¨ 
Rayford slapped his phone shut and sighed. ¡§What an idiot!¡¨ 
¡§Her?¡¨ Albie said. ¡§Or you for considering what you're considering?¡¨ 
¡§Her! This is such a transparent attempt by the GC to lure one of us out there. Once 
they get me, they hold me ransom for information on the rest of the Force. Who 
they really want, of course, is Tsion. The rest of us are irritants. He's the enemy.¡¨ 
¡§So your choice is between this Miss Durham and Tsion Ben-Judah? You want my 

vote?¡¨ 
¡§It's not that easy. We want her for the kingdom, Albie. I mean, we all really do.¡¨ 
¡§And you think if you abandon her now, she'll never believe.¡¨ 
¡§She said as much.¡¨ 
¡§This may sound cold, and I admit I'm new to this, but it's her choice, isn't it? 
You're not making the decision for her.¡¨ 
¡§Going out there would be the dumbest thing I've ever done. They've caught her, 
detained her, threatened totake her back to prison, and yet they leave her with her 
phone. I mean, come on.¡¨ 
Albie scanned the horizon. ¡§Then your decision is easy.¡¨ 
¡§I wish.¡¨ 
¡§It is. Either you don't go, or you consider all your resources.¡¨ 
¡§What does that mean?¡¨ 
¡§There's one it seems you've forgotten. Maybe two.¡¨ 
¡§I'll bite.¡¨ 
¡§Assign David Hassid to find out exactly where they have her and have him send 
through an order from a bogus commander to keep her there until further notice. 
You call her back and tell her you're not coming. Make her and whoever is listening 
in believe it. You just show up, surprise attack, just when both she and the GC think 
you have abandoned her.¡¨ 
Rayford pursed his lips. ¡§Maybe you ought to be in charge of the Trib Force. But 
surprising them doesn't guarantee success. I'll still likely be killed or detained 
myself.¡¨ 
¡§But you've forgotten another resource.¡¨ 
¡§I'm still listening.¡¨ 
¡§Sir? Director? Are you all right?¡¨ 
¡§He's out.¡¨ 
¡§His eyes are open, Doctor.¡¨ 
¡§He fell on his head, Medicine Woman.¡¨ 
¡§I've asked you not to call me th¡X¡¨ 
¡§Sorry. I don't know how you handled fallen braves on the reservation, but this one 
couldn't even break his fall. He couldn't shut his eyes if he wanted to.¡¨ 
¡§Help me get him onto¡X¡¨ 
¡§There you go again, sweetie. I'm not an orderly.¡¨ 
¡§And there you go again, Doctor! We can let him lie here and bleed to death, or I 
can remind you that our patients way outnumber the help.¡¨ 

David's tongue was swollen, and he could not maneuver it to form the word. All he 
wanted was water, but he knew his head required attention too. 
¡§Spray!¡¨ the dark nurse called out, and someone tossed her a bottle. She sprayed 
three bursts of lukewarm water directly into David's face, and he couldn't even 
blink. Compared to the heat of the asphalt, which he estimated at 120 degrees, the 
water felt icy. A few drops reached his mouth and he panted, trying to drink them 
in. 
The doctor and nurse gently rolled him to his back, and in his mind he was 
squinting against the harsh sun. Yet he knew his eyes were wide open and burning. 
He wanted to plead for another spray, but he felt paralyzed. The nurse mercifully 
laid his cap over his face, and when feeling returned, he tried not to move so as to 
keep the cap in place. 
If he could find his voice he would plead for Annie, but he was helpless. She was 
probably somewhere looking for him. 
When David was lifted to a canvas cot, the hat slipped off his face, but he was able 
to blink and was soon under the shade of a crowded tent. He had been assigned the 
last sliver of shadow. ¡§Critical?¡¨ someone asked. 
¡§No,¡¨ the doctor said. ¡§But sew that head up soon.¡¨ 
The first syringe that plunged into his scalp made his whole body jerk and shudder, 
but still he could not call out. In seconds the top of his head was numb. ¡§You can do 
this?¡¨ the doctor said. 
The nurse said, ¡§It's not exactly cosmetic, is it?¡¨ 
¡§Give him threads like a football¡XI don't care. He can always wear a hat.¡¨ 
In truth, David didn't care what his head looked like, and it was a good thing, 
because the nurse quickly shaved an inch on each side of the laceration, splashed 
more liquid on him, and began opening a huge needle. 
¡§How bah?¡¨ David managed, his tongue lolling. 
¡§You'll live,¡¨ she said. ¡§Strictly superficial. Tough skull. But you really yanked the 
flesh away from the bone. Five inches at least, laterally at the top.¡¨ 
¡§Watah?¡¨ 
¡§Sorry.¡¨ 
¡§Little?¡¨ 
She quickly removed the top of the spray bottle, which had an inch of water left in 
it. ¡§Open up.¡¨ 
Most of it ran down David's neck, but it loosened his tongue. ¡§Looking for Chief 
Christopher,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Don't know him,¡¨ she said. ¡§Now hold still.¡¨ 

¡§Her. Annie Christopher.¡¨ 
¡§Director, I've got about five minutes for you, and if you're lucky, I'll find an IV to 
re-hydrate you. But while I'm sewing, you're going to have to shut up and hold still 
if you don't want to look worse.¡¨ 
¡§Do you see what I see?¡¨ Albie squinted into the distance. 
Rayford followed his gaze and was surprised by a gush of emotion. A black tower 
of smoke billowed several hundred feet in the air. ¡§You think?¡¨ he said. 
Albie nodded. ¡§Gotta be.¡¨ 
¡§Get as close as you can,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§That was my home for a long time.¡¨ 
¡§Will do. Now, you going to use every resource available? Or did I waste my 
money on this uniform and all the credentials?¡¨ 
THREE 
Buck awoke at noon, Chicago time, and felt twice his age. As had been true every 
day since the Rapture, he knew exactly where he was. In the past it was not 
uncommon to wake up in a foreign city and have to remind himself where he was, 
who he was, and what he was doing there. No more. Even when exhausted and 
injured and barely able to function, somehow the self-preservation flywheel kept 
spinning in his otherwise unengaged mind. 
He had slept soundly, but at the first flutter of his eyelids and that initial glance at 
his watch, he knew. It all made sense in a ludicrous way. Buck stared at the wall 
next to an elevator in a bombed-out skyscraper in Chicago, heard muffled voices 
from around the corner, smelled coffee and a baby. Kenny had his own aroma, a 
fresh, powdery sweetness that Buck conjured when they were far apart. 
But Kenny was here, barricaded from the outer hallways exposed to the windows 
that let in the midday sun. Buck rolled to his back and propped himself up on his 
elbows. Kenny had apparently given up trying to climb the makeshift barrier and sat 
contentedly playing with one of his loose shoelaces. 
¡§Hey, Kenny Bruce,¡¨ Buck whispered. ¡§Come see Daddy.¡¨ 
Kenny's head jerked up, and then he went to all fours before righting himself and 
toddling to the bed. ¡§Da-da.¡¨ 
Buck reached for him, and the chubby bundle climbed atop him and stretched out 
on his stomach and chest. Buck let his head fall back again and wrapped his arms 
around Kenny. The boy seldom had the patience to simply rest in his father's arms, 
but now he seemed almost ready to nap himself. With the baby's tiny heart beating 
against his own, Buck wished he could lie there forever. 

¡§Da-da bye-bye?¡¨ Kenny said, and Buck could not stop the tears. 
Rayford had made a decision, several in fact. After watching the old safe house burn 
to the ground, he instructed Albie to turn back to Kankakee, where they would fly 
the GC fighter to Colorado. 
¡§Now you're talking, Captain,¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§Now I'm talking,¡¨ Rayford groused. ¡§Now I'm probably getting us all killed.¡¨ 
¡§You're doing the right thing.¡¨ 
Unable to reach David in New Babylon, Rayford left a message asking him to get 
back to them with Hattie's exact whereabouts. He also asked David to inform GC 
personnel holding her that, should their current operation fail, they should keep 
Hattie there until assigned personnel could come for her. 
David often overrode other GC systems to send such directives in a way that they 
could not be traced back to him. He was the one who assigned security codes to 
keep such transmissions from ¡§enemies of the Global Community,¡¨ so he was also 
able to use the channels without detection. ¡§As soon as you can,¡¨ Rayford recorded 
on David's private machine, ¡§get back to Albie and me to confirm you've paved the 
way for us.¡¨ 
Before long Rayford would have to transmit his picture, with his new look and 
name, to David Hassid so the young Israeli could ¡§enlist¡¨ him in the GC 
Peacekeeping Forces too. Meanwhile, he and Albie would put down at what was 
once Peterson Air Force Base, appropriate a GC jeep David would reserve, follow 
his directions to this bunker, if that's what it was, and pick up the prisoner. 
By the time Albie had stalled his landing until the fighter was short of fuel, Rayford 
had been dozing more than two hours. Albie woke him with the news that they had 
not yet heard back from David. 
¡§Not good,¡¨ Rayford said, placing yet another call to New Babylon. No answer. 
¡§You have a computer, Albie?¡¨ 
¡§A subnotebook, but it's got satellite capability.¡¨ 
¡§Programmed to communicate with David?¡¨ 
¡§If you've got his coordinates, I can make it work.¡¨ Rayford found the machine in 
Albie's flight bag. ¡§Batteries are low,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Plug in to the plane's power,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§I don't do heavy-duty stuff on batteries 
anyway.¡¨ 
¡§Keep the power on after we land,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§This could take a while.¡¨ 
Albie nodded and got on the radio to the GC outpost. ¡§GC NB4047 to Peterson 
Tower.¡¨ 
¡§You ought to know we're now Carpathia Memorial, GC,¡¨ came the reply. 
¡§My mistake, tower,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§First time here in I don't know how long.¡¨ He 

winked at Rayford, who glanced up from his computer work. Albie had never been 
in the States before. 
¡§Gonna hafta take the Memorial out of our name, aren't we, 4047?¡¨ 
¡§Come back?¡¨ 
¡§He is risen.¡¨ 
Albie rolled his eyes at Rayford. ¡§Yeah, I heard. That's something, eh?¡¨ 
¡§You're supposed to reply with 'He is risen indeed.' ¡¨ 
Rayford pantomimed sticking his finger down his throat. Albie shook his head. 
¡§Well, I sure believe that, tower,¡¨ he said, glancing at Rayford and pointing up. 
¡§Business here?¡¨ 
¡§Deputy Commander with confidential orders.¡¨ 
¡§Name?¡¨ 
¡§Marcus Elbaz.¡¨ 
¡§One moment.¡¨ 
¡§Low on fuel, tower.¡¨ 
¡§Short on people here, Commander Elbaz. Give me a minute.¡¨ 
¡§We're putting down either way,¡¨ Albie told Rayford, who was busy pecking in the 
details that would orient Albie's computer global-positioning hardware to a satellite 
that would link him directly with David's computer. ¡§There you are, sir,¡¨ the tower 
said. ¡§I see you on the system.¡¨ 
¡§Roger.¡¨ 
¡§Don't have you assigned out this way, though. You been to Kankakee?¡¨ 
¡§That's where I came from.¡¨ 
¡§And your business here?¡¨ 
¡§Repeat, confidential orders.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, yes, sorry. Anything we can help with?¡¨ 
¡§Refueling and a ground vehicle should have been arranged.¡¨ 
¡§As I say, sir, we don't have your disposition here. We can refuel you, no problem, 
with the proper authorization code. Ground transportation is scarce.¡¨ 
¡§I'll trust you to figure something out.¡¨ 
¡§We're very shorthanded and¡X¡¨ 
¡§You mentioned that.¡¨ 
¡§¡Xand frankly, sir, there's no one here near your rank.¡¨ 
¡§Then I expect whoever's in command to obey my order for transportation.¡¨ 

A long pause. 
¡§I'll, uh, pass that word along, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you.¡¨ 
¡§And you're cleared to land.¡¨ 
David awoke in the palace hospital, his head throbbing so he could barely open his 
eyes. He shared a room with two sleeping patients. His clothes had been removed, 
and he lay there in a flimsy gown, an IV in his hand, his watch on a stand next to 
him. Holding it before his bleary eyes was almost more than he could bear. Twentyone 
hundred hours. It couldn't be! 
He tried to sit up and was aware of bandages around his head and over his ears. He 
heard his own pulse and felt pain with every beat. It was dark outside, but a silent 
TV monitor showed pilgrims still in the courtyard, passing by, kneeling, bowing, 
worshiping, praying to the gigantic statue of Nicolae. 
On David's other side was the remote control. He didn't want to wake the other 
patients, but the captioning system was in Arabic. He fiddled with it until it changed 
to English, and the captions merely represented songs piped into the courtyard as 
people slowly passed by the image. He stared as the camera pulled back to show the 
immense crowd, seemingly as big as for the funeral, snaking a mile outside the 
palace. 
David panicked. He had been away from his phone and computer longer than he 
had been in months. He craned his neck looking for a phone, and the pain nearly 
drove him to his pillow again. He pulled a cord ostensibly connected to the nurses' 
station, but no one came. He knew the ratio between nurses and patients was 
ridiculously low, but surely they knew he was a director. That should count for 
something. 
However they were hydrating him was working, because he had to relieve himself 
in a bad way. No bedpan for him. He played with the controls on the side of the bed 
until one railing lowered. He grimaced as he swung his legs off the side, pausing to 
let the throbbing subside and catch his breath. 
Finally he put both hands on the edge of the bed and eased himself to the floor. The 
marble was incongruously cold for such a hot part of the world, but it felt good. He 
stood, swaying, dizzy, waiting for his equilibrium to catch up. When he felt steadier 
he stepped toward the bathroom, reminded by a tug at his wrist that he was still 
hooked to the IV. He stepped back and wiggled the metal stand on rollers away 
from the wall and the end of the bed, but as he dragged it with him, it caught. 
A monitor cord was plugged into the wall. He tried to remove it, but it wouldn't 
budge from the connection or the stand. David knew there had to be some simple 
trick to it. Maybe it was screwed opposite of normal or you had to push to pull it, or 
something. All he knew was, he had to go. Painful as it might be, he yanked at the 
tape, which pulled hairs on his hand, then pulled the needle out with one motion. 

The sting brought tears to his eyes, and as the solution dripped on the floor, he made 
one feeble attempt to turn the stopper, then just tied the cord and headed for the 
bathroom. 
Within seconds he heard the alarm informing the nurses' station that an IV had 
come loose. He opened the closet on his way back, and though his clothes were 
there, his phone was not. His mind nearly went blank from pain and fear. Was this 
the end? Would someone dial back the numbers of Trib Force members who may 
have tried to reach him? He could have already been discovered. Should he just find 
Annie and get out of there? What if she was already dead? She would want him to 
escape and not risk his life in a vain attempt to be sure of her. 
Not a chance. He would not leave without her or without knowing for sure whether 
she was dead. 
¡§What are you doing out of bed?¡¨ It was not a nurse but a female orderly. 
¡§Bathroom,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Back to bed,¡¨ she said. ¡§What have you done with your IV?¡¨ 
¡§I'm fine,¡¨ he said. 
¡§We have bedpans and¡X¡¨ 
¡§I already went¡Xnow just¡X¡¨ 
¡§Sir! Shh! I can hear you and so can everyone else on this floor. Your roommates 
are sleeping.¡¨ 
¡§I just need¡X¡¨ 
¡§Sir, do I need to get someone in here with restraints? Now quiet down!¡¨ 
¡§I am being quiet! Now¡X¡¨ Suddenly David realized the bandages over his ears 
made him talk louder. 
¡§Sorry,¡¨ he said. ¡§I'm Director Hassid. I need to find¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh! You're the director. Are you a lightning victim?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, I took a bolt right through the top of my head, but here I stand.¡¨ 
¡§You don't have to¡X¡¨ 
¡§Sorry. No, I just fainted in the heat, and I'm fine.¡¨ 
¡§You had surgery.¡¨ 
¡§Minor, now¡X¡¨ 
¡§Sir, if you're the director, I'm supposed to tell someone when you're awake.¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ And why had she asked about the lightning? Was Annie a victim, and did 
they somehow connect him with her? He didn't want his mind to run away with 
him. 
¡§I don't know, sir. I just do what I'm told. Six nurses and two aides are handling this 

whole floor, and some floors have fewer staff than that, so¡X¡¨ 
¡§I need to know where my phone is. I carry it with me, and it's not in my uniform. I 
know you're going to tell me to stay away from my uniform anyway, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§On the contrary, sir. You were sponge bathed when you were brought here, and if 
you're ambulatory, I think you're supposed to get dressed.¡¨ 
¡§You think?¡¨ This couldn't be right. Something was wrong. David had been sure 
he'd have to sneak out, but now he was being given the bum's rush? 
¡§I'll get my supervisor, but you might as well start getting dressed. Can you do it 
yourself?¡¨ 
¡§Of course, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§Get started then. I'll be right back. Or she will.¡¨ David had overestimated his 
strength. He pulled his stuff from the closet and sat in a chair to dress, but he was 
soon short of breath and dizzier than ever. His whole head felt afire, and it seemed 
his wound was oozing over both ears, but when he felt under the bandaging, he felt 
nothing. He didn't want to think about the first time that dressing came off. 
With his uniform on and only socks and shoes to go, David opened the door wider 
to get light from the hall. He peered into the mirror and shuddered. Still in his midtwenties 
with smooth, clear, dark skin and nearly black hair and eyes, he had often 
been mistaken for a teenager. Never again. When had he aged so? 
His face looked thin and drawn and, yes, his color lighter. He lowered his head and 
peeked atop it where the bandaging evidenced blood and ooze. The outer wrapping 
extended over his ears and beneath his chin, reminding him of dental patients from 
old movies. David's head seemed to push against the tight wrapping, and when he 
gingerly put on his uniform cap, he knew it was more than his imagination. He 
couldn't be sure how thick the bandages were, but between that and the swelling of 
his head, his cap rode atop him as if several sizes too small. Any thought of 
covering the effects of his stitching to avoid attention was hopeless. Maybe he could 
find a bigger¡Xmuch bigger¡Xcap, but there was no way to hide the wrap that 
extended under his chin anyway. 
The supervising nurse knocked gently and stepped in as David was pulling on his 
socks. She was a bottle blonde, tall and thin, about twice his age. He had to 
straighten up to breathe and let the pain subside every few seconds. 
¡§Let me help you,¡¨ she said, clearly Scandinavian, kneeling and putting on his 
socks and shoes and tying them. David was so overwhelmed he nearly wept. Could 
she be a Christian? He wanted to ask. Anyone with a servant spirit like that was 
either a believer or a candidate. ¡§Ma'am,¡¨ he said, trying to remember to talk softly. 
She looked up at him and he studied her forehead, searching, hoping for the mark of 
the believer. None. ¡§Thank you.¡¨ 
¡§You're welcome,¡¨ she said quickly. ¡§Happy to help and wish I could help more. If 
I had my way, you would be with us a couple more days at least, maybe more.¡¨ 

¡§I'd just as soon leave. I¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I'm sure you would. No one wants to stay, and who can blame them? All the 
excitement, the resurrection, and all. But the potentate has called a meeting of 
directors and above, his office, at 2200 hours. You are expected.¡¨ 
¡§I am?¡¨ 
¡§When his office was told you had succumbed to the heat and had been injured and 
operated on, we were informed that if you were alive and ambulatory, you were to 
be there.¡¨ 
¡§I see.¡¨ 
¡§I'm glad someone does. You, sir, should be a patient. I wouldn't be running around 
so soon¡X¡¨ 
¡§I was told this was superficial, minor surgery.¡¨ 
¡§Minor surgery is an operation on someone else. You've heard that, I'm sure. You 
know a nurse did the procedure, and good as she was, she was pressed into duty¡X¡¨ 
¡§Do you know who that was? I'm pretty sure she was Native¡X¡¨ 
¡§Hannah Palemoon,¡¨ she said. 
¡§I wonder if she's got my phone. It was in my¡X¡¨ 
¡§I doubt it, Director. You'll find your wallet and keys and ID unmolested. We know 
better than to confiscate things from someone at your level.¡¨ 
¡§I appreciate that, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§No one took your phone, sir. Could you have dropped it where you fell, left it in 
your vehicle?¡¨ 
David cocked his head. Possible, but unlikely. He had not been talking on the phone 
when he fell, best he could remember, so it would have been in his pocket. ¡§Where 
would I find Nurse Palem¡X¡¨ 
¡§I told you, Director. She would not have your phone, and I'm not going to tell you 
where she is. We're working twenty-four on and twenty-four off here, and she's off. 
If she's like me, she sleeps the first twelve of those twenty-four hours off, and she 
ought to be allowed to.¡¨ 
David nodded, but he couldn't wait to get back to his computer and look her up in 
the personnel directory. ¡§Ma'am, I have to find an employee I'm worried about. 
Name's Annie Christopher. Cargo chief of the Phoenix but assigned crowd control 
at sector 53 today.¡¨ 
¡§That's not good.¡¨ 
¡§So I've heard. Lightning there?¡¨ 
¡§Bad. Several deaths and injuries. I can check to see if she's in our system. You 
might check the morgue.¡¨ David flinched. ¡§I'd appreciate it if you'd check your 

system.¡¨ 
¡§I will, sir. Then you had better get to your quarters and relax before your meeting. 
You know as well as I do you're in no condition to be sitting at a table, thrilling as it 
may be to meet with a man who was dead this morning and is alive tonight. Follow 
me.¡¨ She led him to the nurses' station, where she searched the computer. ¡§No 
Christopher,¡¨ she said, ¡§but our entries have been hopelessly delayed.¡¨ 
¡§She would have had an employee badge,¡¨ David said. ¡§And it should have been 
swiped by a wand.¡¨ 
¡§So the morgue?¡¨ he said, again trying to cover his emotion. 
¡§Look on the bright side,¡¨ she said. ¡§Maybe she wasn't a victim at all.¡¨ 
That would almost be worse, David decided. Why could he not reach her, and why 
would she not have tried to reach him? Well, maybe she had. He had to find his 
phone before the meeting. 
¡§Nothing,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§David hasn't accessed his computer for hours, and I'm 
getting no answer on his phone. Now it's not even letting me leave a message, as it 
he's turned it off.¡¨ 
¡§Strange,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§So Pueblo doesn't even know we're coming.¡¨ 
¡§And we're not going if we don't know where it is.¡¨ 
¡§We'll find out.¡¨ 
¡§You're a resourceful guy, Albie, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§I love the impossible. But you're the boss. I need your permission.¡¨ 
¡§What's your plan?¡¨ 
¡§To find out if your new look and ID work.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, boy.¡¨ 
¡§C'mon, man. Confidence.¡¨ 
¡§The plan, Albie.¡¨ 
¡§I'll be the ranking officer down there. I blame the computer delay on all the 
excitement or the incompetence in New Babylon. Who can argue that? You're with 
me. If they demand ID, you've got it. You're no longer just a civilian helping out, 
though. You're a recruit, a trainee.¡¨ 
¡§Uh-huh.¡¨ 
¡§Not only do I insist on a car, but I'll get out of them the location of the bunker.¡¨ 
¡§This I've got to see.¡¨ 
¡§I love showing off.¡¨ 
Rayford slapped Albie's computer shut. ¡§Tell me about it.¡¨ 
Kenny Bruce tried to tug Buck toward the barrier, as if knowing his dad could get 

him past it. But Buck was anchored to the bed. He felt as if he'd survived a plane 
crash. Or hadn't. It was as if his spine were compacted, every muscle, bone, joint, 
and tendon tender. He sat there trying to muster the strength to rise and stretch and 
make his way to his wife and the others. 
Kenny, apparently resigned to patience, climbed onto his father's lap and put a hand 
on each side of his face. He looked into Buck's eyes and said, ¡§Mama?¡¨ 
¡§We'll see Mama in a minute, hon,¡¨ Buck said. Kenny traced Buck's deep facial 
scars with his stubby fingers. ¡§They don't bother you, do they, bud.¡¨ 
¡§Da-da,¡¨ Kenny said. ¡§Mama.¡¨ 
Presently Buck rose, lifting Kenny as he went. The boy spread his legs and settled 
in over Buck's hip, his arms around him, head on Buck's chest. ¡§Wish I could take 
you with me everywhere I go,¡¨ Buck said, limping, stiff legged, and gimpy. ¡§Mama, 
Da-da.¡¨ 
¡§Yep. We're goin', bud.¡¨ 
Buck prepared himself for the always embarrassing welcome saved for the last 
person to rise, but when he came into view of everyone else in the safe house, he 
was virtually ignored. Leah sat bundled in a robe, leaning back against a wall, 
dozing, her bleached-blonde hair with red roots wrapped in a towel. Chaim stared at 
the tabletop before him, his head in his hands, a straw in his coffee cup. Tsion stood 
beside a window, out of view from the outside just in case, head bowed, softly 
praying. 
Chloe paced, phone pressed to her ear, tears streaming. She looked directly into 
Buck's eyes as if to let him know she was aware he was there, and when Kenny 
tried to wriggle down to get to her, Buck whispered, ¡§Stay with Daddy a minute, 
hmm?¡¨ 
Chloe was saying, ¡§I understand, Zeke. ... I know, sweetie, I know. God knows. . . . 
It'll be all right. We'll come get you, don't you worry. .. . Zeke, God knows. . . , It'll 
be after dark, but you stay strong, hear?¡¨ 
She finally rang off, and everyone looked to her. ¡§Big Zeke was busted,¡¨ she said. 
¡§Zeke Sr.?¡¨ Tsion asked. Zeke Jr. was much bigger than his father, but still they 
were known as Big Zeke and Little Zeke. 
She nodded. ¡§GC goons got him this morning, cuffed him, charged him with 
subversion, took him away.¡¨ 
¡§How'd they miss Zeke Jr.?¡¨ Buck asked, finally letting Kenny down. 
¡§Zeke!¡¨ Kenny said, giggling. 
Chloe shrugged. ¡§Their underground was better hidden than ours, and I don't think 
Little Zeke ever showed his face outside.¡¨ 
¡§Zeke!¡¨ Kenny said. ¡§Little Zeke coming here?¡¨ Leah said. ¡§Where else would he 

go? He says GC is staking out the place, picking up people who stop for gas.¡¨ 
¡§How's he know?¡¨ 
¡§He's got some kind of a monitor rigged up that he used to keep track of his dad. 
That's how he knew Big Zeke had been arrested. He knows his dad won't give him 
up, but he also knows he can't stay there. He's packing.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah,¡¨ Buck said, ¡§all he'd need is for the GC to find all his files and documentmaking 
paraphernalia.¡¨ 
¡§It will be good to have him here,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§He will be safe and can do so much 
for so many. Cameron, how are you feeling?¡¨ 
¡§Better than Chaim, apparently.¡¨ The old man lifted his head and tried to smile. ¡§I'll 
be OK,¡¨ he mouthed through his clenched jaw. ¡§No capers for me. Eager to study 
and learn.¡¨ 
Tsion moved away from the window. ¡§And me with a student who cannot talk. You 
must listen and read. You will be an expert about our own people before you know 
it. God's chosen people. What a thrill to teach it. I will use the same material in my 
cyberlesson, wherein I expose Carpathia as the Antichrist.¡¨ 
¡§Coming right out with it, are you?¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Absolutely,¡¨ the rabbi said. ¡§The 
gloves are off, as you Americans so like to say. There is no longer any question 
about him, nor should there be. I am persuaded that Leon is his false prophet, and I 
will say that too. Those who have ears will not be deceived. It will not be long 
before the Satan-indwelt beast will take out his rage against the Jews.¡¨ 
Chaim held up a hand. Buck could barely make out the labored, muffled question. 
¡§And what are we to do? We are no match for him.¡¨ 
¡§You will see, my friend,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§You will learn today not only the history of 
the Jews, but their future as well. God will protect his people, now and 
forevermore.¡¨ 
¡§I like being a believer already,¡¨ Chaim managed. ¡§Buck,¡¨ Chloe said, stepping 
close to embrace him, ¡§we have to plan Zeke's rescue.¡¨ 
¡§Just what I need today, another mission.¡¨ 
¡§You slept, didn't you?¡¨ 
¡§Like a dead man.¡¨ 
¡§Don't say that.¡¨ 
¡§Well...¡¨ 
¡§It's you or me, pal,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§If you need another day of recup¡X¡¨ 
¡§I'll be ready,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I can help,¡¨ Leah said. ¡§I'm fit.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe the two of you, then,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§I've got to get news to the co-op, keep 

everybody working together.¡¨ 
¡§We're going to need a pilot,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Put the GC chopper down right in the 
middle of their stakeout, chide 'em for missing a suspect, and we arrest Zeke Jr. and 
bring him here. What? What's with all the looks?¡¨ 
¡§We don't have a chopper today or tonight, hon,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§Probably not until 
tomorrow night, and we don't dare risk making Zeke wait that long.¡¨ 
¡§OK, so where's the helicopter and your dad? And Albie?¡¨ 
FOUR 
David hurried to his office and phoned Annie. No answer. Then he called the motor 
pool. The man who had originally brought him his cart was off duty, but the one he 
reached told him, ¡§No, sir, no phone. Nothing was left in there. We found the cart 
but not you, and my boss was pretty mad until he traced you to Medical Services. 
You OK?¡¨ 
¡§Fine.¡¨ 
¡§Need the cart?¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
¡§Anything I can do fo¡X¡¨ 
But David had hung up. He flipped open his computer and saw urgent messages 
flashing from the code words and numbers he knew belonged to his comrades in the 
Tribulation Force. He would get to those when he could, but for now, before the 
infernal meeting, he had to get his phone back and find out where Annie was. 
His watch read 2135. He searched the GC database for Personnel, Medical, Nursing, 
Female, under P. There it was: ¡§Palemoon, Hannah L., room and extension 4223.¡¨ 
A groggy hello greeted the fifth ring. 
¡§Nurse Palemoon?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, who's this?¡¨ 
¡§I am so sorry to be calling so late and sorry to wake you, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§Hassid?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, forgive me, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§I have your phone.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, thank G-goodness! Is it on?¡¨ 
¡§No, sir, I turned it off. Now are you coming to get it so I can get back to sleep?¡¨ 
¡§Could I? If you don't mind terribly, I¡X¡¨ 

¡§I gotta show you something anyway.¡¨ What in the world? Was he being set up? 
Why would she be so willing to have him come and get it? And why did she take it 
in the first place? To be safe, he jumped back on the computer and fired up the 
bugging device that would record their conversation in the corridor outside her 
room. As he backed out of that program he saw the blinking signals for his urgent 
messages again. Looked like Rayford and Albie had been desperately trying to 
reach him. He didn't have time to deal with them, but what if they had heard from 
Annie? He had to peek. 
The requests stunned him. He was way late for helping Albie and Rayford in 
Colorado, but his fingers flew over the keyboard anyway. His head ached, his 
wound oozed, and he blinked furiously. He entered the numbers to over-ride the 
Peacekeeping security codes. Under his phony name as a high-level GC unit 
commander in New Babylon, he assigned Marcus Elbaz to Carpathia Memorial 
Airstrip in Colorado Springs. He also authorized him to temporarily appropriate a 
vehicle with which to take custody of an escapee from the Belgium Facility for 
Female Rehabilitation, currently incarcerated at a bunker on the north end of 
Pueblo. A few more keystrokes derived the exact coordinates of that facility and the 
name of the deputy director in charge¡XPinkerton Stephens. Fortunately, Stephens 
was lower ranked than Deputy Commander Elbaz. 
David would work on name, rank, and serial number for Rayford later, hoping the 
two of them could bluff their way past the GC in the meantime. It was 2150, 
Hannah Palemoon was waiting, and he couldn't be late for the big meeting. Healthy 
and in shape it would have been a challenge to get to her room, retrieve his phone, 
and get to Carpathia's office in time, but wounded as he was, he couldn't imagine it. 
He could phone Fortunato at the last minute and explain he would be a few minutes 
late, coming from his hospital bed. But neither did he want to miss any of that 
meeting. As he locked his door and strode quickly toward the elevator, he wobbled 
and had to grab the wall. Catch your breath, he told himself. Late is better than not 
there at all. 
¡§Give me my razor,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§It's going to be hard to pull this off if I'm out of 
regulation.¡¨ 
¡§You'll be on the ground in less than a minute,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§I have a copilot, do I not?¡¨ 
Rayford pulled Albie's electric razor from his bag and took over the landing as 
Albie shaved and tightened his tie. When the tower confirmed the landing, Albie 
responded, then whipped off the headphones and put on his uniform cap. When they 
disembarked, Rayford was struck again how the diminutive Middle Easterner 
seemed taller, more commanding. 
¡§I can point you to the refueling area so you can tank up before takeoff, Commander 
Elbaz.¡¨ 

¡§You can't do it for me while I'm on assignment?¡¨ 
¡§Sorry, sir, we're shorthan¡X¡¨ 
¡§I know. Carry on.¡¨ 
Rayford stayed a step behind Albie as they made their way to the offices, hoping 
that once David got him enlisted as a GC Peacekeeper, he would give him an even 
higher rank. How could he supervise a man who outranked him in disguise? 
The officer at the desk saluted and said, ¡§I told my chief you weren't in the 
computer, so you're on your own for ground transportation. If you'll give me your 
fueling order number, however, I can clear you for that when¡X¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me?¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§You'll have to refuel yourself, because¡X¡¨ 
¡§I know all that. I need a vehicle for an important assignment, and I need it now. 
You expect me to rent a car?¡¨ 
¡§Sir, I'm just telling you what my chief said. I¡X¡¨ 
¡§Get him out here.¡¨ 
¡§He's a her, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I don't care if he's a gorilla. Get him, or her, out here.¡¨ 
The airstrip chief appeared before the deskman buzzed her. She saluted but did not 
smile. ¡§Judy Hamilton at your service, Commander.¡¨ 
¡§Not enough at my service, I'm afraid.¡¨ 
¡§I can do only what I can do, sir, but I'm open to suggestions.¡¨ 
¡§Do you have a vehicle?¡¨ 
¡§None available, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I need it for half a day, tops.¡¨ 
¡§None, sir.¡¨ 
¡§You personally?¡¨ 
¡§Me, sir?¡¨ 
Albie sighed loudly through his nose. ¡§You understand English, Hamilton? Do-youpersonally-
have-a-vehicle?¡¨ 
¡§I have not been issued GC wheels, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I didn't ask you that. How do you get to work?¡¨ 
¡§I drive.¡¨ 
¡§Then you must have a vehicle.¡¨ 
¡§My own, yes, sir.¡¨ 
¡§That would be what personal means, Judy. I will be borrowing your personal 

vehicle this afternoon, and the Global Community will be indebted to you. In fact, 
we will be indebted at the rate of one Nick per mile.¡¨ 
She raised a brow. ¡§The manual says half that, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I'm aware of that,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§I'll authorize it due to your cooperation.¡¨ 
¡§No demerits for stupidity, sir?¡¨ 
¡§Only for insubordination, Hamilton, which is one way I define sarcasm.¡¨ 
¡§So you'll pay me a Nick a mile for the use of my car.¡¨ 
¡§You catch on quickly.¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
¡§No?¡¨ 
¡§No, you'll not be using my car.¡¨ 
¡§I beg your pardon, Hamilton?¡¨ 
¡§I have a meeting in Monument in two hours, and C-25 has been open only a week, 
and not all lanes. I need to leave now.¡¨ 
¡§And you believe your meeting takes precedence over that of a deputy 
commander?¡¨ 
¡§It does today, sir, because of your attitude.¡¨ 
¡§You are denying me the use of your car?¡¨ 
¡§You catch on quickly.¡¨ 
Albie squinted at her, reddening. ¡§You're going on report, Hamilton. You will be 
disciplined.¡¨ 
¡§But surely not this afternoon. And you will be disciplined as well.¡¨ 
¡§I?¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§How long has it been since the resurrection of the potentate, yet you greeted 
neither my deskman nor me with the new phrase.¡¨ 
¡§I have been busy and up for hours.¡¨ 
¡§You don't know that we greet each other with 'He is risen,' to be responded to by 
'He is risen indeed'?¡¨ 
¡§Of course, but¡Xma'am, I also need to know the exact location of the facility on the 
north end of Pueblo where¡X¡¨ 
¡§You don't have full orders, sir?¡¨ 
¡§Unfortunately not.¡¨ 
¡§Corporal, check the computer again. Let me see what we do have on Deputy 
Commander Elbaz and whether we can add bluster and bullying to his profile.¡¨ 
¡§Hamilton, I¡X¡¨ She silenced him with a hand. ¡§Hey,¡¨ the deskman said, ¡§this 

wasn't here before. Straight from the brass in New Babylon. Look.¡¨ 
Hamilton peered and blanched at the screen. Rayford let out a breath. The woman 
cleared her throat. ¡§It appears everything is in order, Commander. I, uh, would like 
to propose a truce.¡¨ 
¡§I'm listening.¡¨ 
¡§You're cleared for a vehicle too, and we will find you one, though I will be happy 
to use the jeep if you still care to use my car.¡¨ 
¡§You would let me?¡¨ 
¡§I will not only let you use the car, but I will also agree not to report your breach of 
protocol if you will keep between us your opinion of my insubordination.¡¨ 
Buck and Chloe left the baby in Leah's care while Tsion and Chaim studied. The 
couple made their way to the basement of the tower, where Buck had parked the 
Land Rover among many other vehicles. 
¡§We can be grateful this place had the ritzy clientele it did,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§Look at 
these rigs.¡¨ 
Buck had to smile at the difference between them and the filthy, banged-up Rover, 
which wasn't so old. He smacked a palm atop it, and it echoed throughout the 
parking garage. ¡§Ol' Bessie saw us through a lot, didn't she?¡¨ 
Chloe shook her head. ¡§She? You men and your penchant for attributing female 
characteristics to your cars.¡¨ 
Buck leaned back against a pillar and beckoned Chloe to him. He enveloped her. 
¡§Think about it,¡¨ he said. ¡§I couldn't pay the car, or women, a higher compliment.¡¨ 
¡§Keep digging. You'll need a backhoe in a minute.¡¨ 
¡§Not if you think about it.¡¨ 
She leaned back and cocked her head, pointing to her temple. ¡§Hmm, let's see if ol' 
Charley and I can figger this out. Callin' mah brain by a man's name is the biggest 
compliment I can pay it and men.¡¨ 
¡§C'mon,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Think what that car's been through with us. It got us through 
traffic when the war broke out. Kept you alive when you sailed it into a tree, no less. 
Rode with me into a crevice in the earth and back out again, not to mention up, 
over, and through every obstacle.¡¨ 
¡§You're right,¡¨ she said. ¡§No man could have done that.¡¨ 
¡§You and Charley figger that out all by yourselves?¡¨ 
¡§Yep. And wanna know what else? I think a Humvee is the way to go this time.¡¨ 
¡§We got one?¡¨ 
¡§Two. Down around the corner near the luxury cars.¡¨ She pulled him to a darker 
area of the underground structure. ¡§All the spaces are numbered, and they coincide 

with the key Peg-Board in the attendant's shack. There's hardly a car in here with 
less than half a tank of gas, and most of 'em are full.¡¨ 
¡§People must have been prepared.¡¨ 
¡§Some were listening to the rumors of war, apparently.¡¨ 
Buck tapped her head. ¡§Thank you, Charley.¡¨ He surveyed the selection of 
vehicles¡Xdozens of them, mostly new¡Xand let out a low whistle. ¡§When God 
blesses, he blesses.¡¨ But Chloe had grown quiet. ¡§Whatcha thinking?¡¨ he said. 
She pursed her lips and buried her hands in her jacket pockets. ¡§About what fun we 
would have had if we'd been lovers at any other time in history.¡¨ 
He nodded. ¡§We wouldn't have been believers.¡¨ 
¡§Someone might have gotten to us. Look at us. This is the most fun I've had in ages. 
It's like we're in a free car dealership and it's our turn to pick. We've got a beautiful 
baby and a free sitter, and all we have to do is decide what model and color car we 
want.¡¨ 
She rested against a white Hummer and Buck joined her. She shook her head. 
¡§We're older than our years, wounded, scarred, scared. It won't be long before our 
days will be spent looking for ways to just stay alive. I worry about you all the time. 
It's bad enough living now, but I couldn't go on without you.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, you could.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't want to. Would you, without me? Maybe I shouldn't ask.¡¨ 
¡§No, Chlo', I know what you mean. We have a cause, a mission, and everything 
seems crystal clear. But I wouldn't want to go on without you either. I would. I'd 
have to. For Kenny. For God. For the rest of the Force. Like Tsion says, for the 
kingdom. You'd have been the best thing that ever happened to me even if you 
weren't my whole life. But you are. Let's watch out for each other, keep each other 
alive. We've got only three and a half years to go, but I want to make it. Don't you?¡¨ 
'¡§Course.¡¨ 
She turned and held him tightly for a long minute, and they kissed fiercely. 
When David finally mince-stepped his way down the fourth floor of the employee 
residence tower, he found room 4223 open a crack, a sliver of light peeking out. He 
was about to knock when a dark hand poking out the end of a quilted robe thrust his 
phone out at him. 
¡§Thanks, ma'am,¡¨ he said. ¡§I've got to run.¡¨ 
¡§Ma'am?!¡¨ Nurse Palemoon said. ¡§I can't be that much older'n you, boy. How old 
are you?¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ 
She opened the door and leaned wearily against the jamb. Her hair was in a 
ponytail, and her eyes looked sleepy behind puffy cheeks. David was surprised how 

short she was. ¡§I'm not even thirty yet,¡¨ she said, ¡§so quit with the ma'am, all 
right?¡¨ 
¡§Fair enough. Listen, I'm late for a meeting. I wanted to thank you, and¡X¡¨ 
¡§I said I wanted to show you something.¡¨ 
¡§So you did. What? And why did you take my phone?¡¨ 
¡§Well, that's sort of what I wanted to show you.¡¨ 
David didn't want to be rude, but what was this game? She just stood there, arms 
folded, gazing at him with raised brows. ¡§OK,¡¨ he said. ¡§What?¡¨ 
She didn't move. Oh, brother, he thought. She's not trying to make a move on me. 
Please! 
He slipped the phone in his pocket and gestured with both palms raised. ¡§Oh!¡¨ she 
said. ¡§You're in the dark.¡¨ 
I sure am. 
She straightened and flipped a switch just inside the door. The tiny light above her 
door illuminated them both. She matched his gesture and he stopped breathing. 
'You've got to be kidding! Plain as the nose on her face, the mark was clear on her 
forehead. 
¡§Check it,¡¨ she said. ¡§I wouldn't blame you. I know yours is real. I rubbed it with 
alcohol.¡¨ 
David looked up and down the hall, asked her to forgive him, licked his thumb, and 
pressed it against her forehead as she leaned in to him. He looked both ways one 
more time and leaned down to embrace her briefly. ¡§Sister,¡¨ he whispered. ¡§I am 
glad to see you! I didn't know we had anybody in Medical.¡¨ 
¡§I don't know of anyone else,¡¨ she said. ¡§But as soon as I saw your mark and knew 
your rank, I thought of your phone.¡¨ 
¡§You're brilliant,¡¨ he said. 
¡§You're welcome. I'll be back in touch.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure you will.¡¨ 
¡§And thanks, Nurse P¡X¡¨ 
¡§Hannah,¡¨ she said. ¡§Please, David.¡¨ 
On his way back to the elevator he checked his phone. There were several 
messages, none from Annie. He would visit the morgue only as a last resort. He 
speed-dialed the Supreme Commander's office and reached Sandra, the assistant 
Carpathia and Fortunato had shared. 
¡§Glad to hear you're up and about,¡¨ she said. ¡§They're expecting you. I'll tell them 
you'll be a few minutes.¡¨ 
Assuming that because David had finally gotten Albie's clearance into the system he 

might also have passed along the location of the Pueblo bunker, Rayford jogged to 
the fighter to grab Albie's computer on their way out. 
¡§This used to be an interstate,¡¨ he said, driving Judy Hamilton's nondescript 
minivan south on C-25. ¡§Until everything got renamed for St. Nick.¡¨ 
Albie was accessing data. ¡§It's here,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§The interchanges and exits are 
still under construction, so watch for a hard left into Pueblo. I'll tell you from there. 
Humph. Pinkerton Stephens. There's a handle for you. The man we want to see 
there.¡¨ 
¡§Heard of him?¡¨ 
Albie shook his head. ¡§Ask me tomorrow.¡¨ 
A few minutes later they passed the Quonset-hut-style building deep off a side road. 
Rayford said, ¡§Question. Why not come in here with a GC jeep¡Xcomplete the 
image?¡¨ 
¡§Surprise. You told Ms. Durham in no uncertain terms you were not coming,, 
knowing they were listening. They're not expecting anyone. Let them wonder who's 
pulling in. I show up in uniform, outranking everyone; they don't recognize the 
civilian. They'll worry more about impressing us than making up a story. Anyway, I 
don't want to transport this woman in an open jeep, do you?¡¨ 
Rayford shook his head. ¡§You really think we'll surprise 'em?¡¨ 
¡§Only briefly. The gate guard will let them know brass is coming.¡¨ 
Rayford popped a U-turn and headed for the entrance. The guard at the gate asked 
him to state his business. ¡§Just chauffeuring the deputy commander here.¡¨ 
The guard stooped to get a look at Albie, then saluted. ¡§An appointment with 
whom, sir?¡¨ 
¡§Stephens, and I'm late, if you don't mind.¡¨ 
¡§Sign here, please.¡¨ 
Rayford signed ¡§Marvin Berry,¡¨ and they were waved on. 
As they entered the front office, a woman at the desk was listening to a strange 
Voice over the intercom. It was high-pitched and nasal, and Rayford couldn't tell if 
it came from a man or a woman. ¡§A deputy commander to see me?¡¨ the voice said. 
¡§Yes, Mr. Stephens. I checked the name with the GC database and the only Marvin 
Berry employed by us is not in Peacekeeping. He's an elderly fisherman in Canada.¡¨ 
¡§I smell a rat,¡¨ the voice said. 
So it's a man, but what's the matter with him? Rayford wondered. 
¡§One moment, sir,¡¨ the woman said, standing when she noticed the deputy 
commander behind Rayford. ¡§Is your name Berry?¡¨ 
¡§Berry's my driver,¡¨ Albie barked. ¡§Look up Elbaz on your computer. None of my 

family knows how to fish.¡¨ 
¡§Mystery solved, Mr. Stephens,¡¨ the woman announced over the intercom. ¡§The 
gate guard had the driver sign.¡¨ 
¡§Incompetent!¡¨ Stephens's weird voice sang into the squawk box. ¡§Send him in!¡¨ 
¡§The guard?¡¨ 
¡§The deputy commander!¡¨ 
She pointed to the first door on the left down a short hallway, but when Rayford 
moved to follow, she said, ¡§Only the deputy commander, please.¡¨ 
¡§He's with me,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§I'll clear it with the boss.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I don't know.¡¨ 
¡§I do,¡¨ Albie said. He stopped at the door and knocked. 
¡§Come in,¡¨ came the disembodied voice. 
¡§Come in?¡¨ Albie repeated in a whisper. ¡§Is he going to be embarrassed when he 
realizes he didn't open the door to a superior officer.¡¨ 
Albie pushed the door open, stepped in, and hesitated, \causing Rayford to bump 
into him. ¡§Sorry,¡¨ Rayford mumbled. He could not see Stephens, but he heard the 
whine of an electric motor. 
¡§Forgive the lack of protocol,¡¨ came the voice as Stephens's wheelchair rolled into 
view. Rayford was taken aback. The man had one leg, the other a stump just above 
the knee; his right hand had small protrusions in place of fingers, and the other 
hand, though whole, had clearly suffered severe burns. ¡§I'd stand, but then, I can't.¡¨ 
¡§Understood,¡¨ Albie said, hesitantly shaking the man's partial hand. 
Rayford did the same, and they followed Stephens's gesture to two chairs that filled 
the small office. What was it about the face? Stephens's neck was permanently red 
and scarred, as were his cheekbones and ears. He was clearly wearing a toupee. 
Except for the lips, the middle of his face¡Xchin, nose, eye sockets, and the center 
of his forehead¡Xseemed all of one piece, the color of a plastic hearing aid. 
¡§Don't know you, Elbaz,¡¨ Stephens said, almost like a man with no tongue or no 
nose. ¡§You, Berry, you look familiar. You GC?¡¨ 
¡§No, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I'm here on business,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§I don't have a hard copy of my orders, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me, Deputy Commander, but I'll get to you. You got a minute?¡¨ 
¡§Well, sure, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§Just give me a minute. I mean, I know you outrank me and all, but unless you're in 
an unusual hurry, bear with me. Your story checks out. I'll give you all the help I 
can on whatever you need. Now, Berry, were you ever GC?¡¨ 
Rayford, disconcerted by the wasted body and the voice, hesitated. ¡§No, uh, no, sir. 

Not Peacekeeping anyway.¡¨ 
¡§But something.¡¨ 
¡§I didn't mean to say that.¡¨ 
¡§But you did. You were GC connected some way, weren't you? You look familiar. I 
know you or of you, or I'll bet I know a friend of yours.¡¨ 
Albie gave Rayford a look, and Rayford quit talking. Regardless of the question, 
Rayford merely stared at the man, racking his brain. Where would he have run into 
a Pinkerton Stephens, and how could he forget him if he had? 
¡§I was a whole man then, Mr. Berry. If that's your real name.¡¨ 
Rayford grew more uncomfortable by the second. Had they been set up? Would he 
ever get out of here? And what of Hattie? Albie seemed to have stiffened and was 
no more comfortable than he. 
Stephens cocked his head for one more lingering glance at Rayford, then turned to 
Albie. ¡§Now then, Deputy Commander Elbaz. What might be your business with 
me?¡¨ 
¡§I've been assigned to take custody of your prisoner, sir.¡¨ 
¡§And who told you I had a prisoner?¡¨ 
¡§Top brass, sir. Said the subject was uncooperative, that some plan or mission 
failed, and that we were to return her to Buffer.¡¨ 
¡§Buffer? What's that?¡¨ 
¡§You know what that is, Stephens, if you are who you say you are.¡¨ 
¡§Doesn't make Sense that half a man would be in a leadership role in the GC?¡¨ 
Stephens said. 
¡§I didn't say that.¡¨ 
¡§But it doesn't add up, does it?¡¨ 
¡§Can't say it does.¡¨ 
¡§Never saw another like me in the ranks, have you, Elbaz?¡¨ 
¡§No, sir, I haven't.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I'm legit whether you like it or not, and you're going to have to deal with 
me.¡¨ 
¡§Happy to, sir, and when you check me out, you'll see that everything is in order, 
and¡X¡¨ 
¡§Did I say I was housing a prisoner here, Deputy Commander?¡¨ 
¡§No, sir, but I know you are.¡¨ 
¡§You know I am.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ 

¡§Buffer is a female rehab facility, sir. Were you under the impression I had a female 
incarcerated here?¡¨ 
Albie nodded. 
¡§Does this look like a detention center to you?¡¨ 
¡§They take different forms during different times.¡¨ 
¡§Indeed they do. Is there a reason, sir, why you did not greet me with the new 
protocol?¡¨ 
¡§I've been having trouble remembering that, Mr. Stephens.¡¨ 
¡§Indeed? Do you realize, sir, that you have a smudge on your forehead?¡¨ 
Albie jerked. Rayford felt a chill. A GC Peacekeeper could see Albie's mark? 
Things tumbled into place so fast that Rayford could barely keep up. How much had 
been compromised? Albie knew everything! 
¡§I do?¡¨ Albie said innocently. He swiped at his forehead with his palm. 
¡§There, that's better,¡¨ Stephens said. Albie slowly moved his hand until it rested on 
his side arm. If only Rayford had one. 
¡§Gentlemen,¡¨ Stephens enunciated carefully past his awful sound, ¡§if you'll do me 
the kindness of following me, I'd like us to start over in a new room. This time we'll 
begin with the proper protocol¡Xwhat do you say?¡¨ 
He rolled past Rayford and Albie, reached for the door, swung it open, and sped 
through before it slammed on him. Albie rose and grabbed it, and Rayford followed 
him down the hall. Albie unsnapped the strap that held the 9 mm in its holster. 
Rayford wondered if he had time to peel off and get out the front door to the van 
before Albie knew he was gone. He hesitated, hoping the whir of the chair would 
cover him if he made the decision. 
But Albie turned and motioned Rayford to walk in front of him, behind the fastmoving 
chair. Even if he could escape, Hattie was history. He had no choice but to 
stay and play it out. 
FIVE 
Buck settled on the white Hummer, confirmed it had a full tank, checked the tires, 
found the keys, checked the engine, and fired it up. 
¡§What shall we name her?¡¨ Chloe said. 
¡§This is a big, ol' muscle car,¡¨ he said. ¡§It's got Chloe written all over it.¡¨ 
It would be hours before dark, and they would be in touch with Zeke frequently to 
discover what he knew about the positioning of the GC stakeout. They were looking 

for rebels who gassed up at his dad's station, not expecting Zeke Jr. to even be there. 
But could Buck get him out of there without their seeing? 
Kenny was down for a nap, and Leah was reading when they returned. ¡§Tsion said 
you could join him and Chaim,¡¨ she said. ¡§And Chloe was going to involve me in 
the co-op stuff.¡¨ 
¡§I've got to start communicating with everyone,¡¨ Chloe said, setting up her 
computer as Leah pulled up a chair. Buck moved up one floor to Tsion's hideaway. 
What a spot he had set up for himself. In a room just big enough for a U-shaped 
desk, Tsion had what amounted to a cockpit, where he was within arm's length of 
whatever he needed. With his computer before him and his commentaries and Bible 
on a ledge above, he was ready. Buck was struck by how few books he had brought 
with him, but Dr. Ben-Judah explained that most of what he needed had been 
scanned onto his massive hard drive. 
Chaim sat in a comfortable chair looking less than comfortable. He had been hurt 
worse than Buck in the plane crash, yet he sat weeping tears of apparent joy, as 
Tsion rushed to teach him. 
¡§Much of this you have heard from your youth, Chaim,¡¨ the rabbi said, ¡§but now 
that God has opened your eyes and you know Jesus is the Messiah, you will be 
amazed at how it all comes together for you and makes sense.¡¨ 
Chaim rocked and wept and nodded. ¡§I see,¡¨ he said over and over. ¡§I see.¡¨ 
Buck sat transfixed, hearing in a gush much of what he had learned over the past 
three-plus years from Tsion's daily cybermessages. At times the rabbi himself 
would be overcome and have to stop and exult, ¡§Chaim, you don't know how we 
prayed for you, again and again, that God would open your eyes. Do you need a 
break, my brother?¡¨ 
Chaim shook his head but held up a hand, trying to make himself understood 
despite the wired-shut jaw. ¡§God is opening my eyes to so many things,¡¨ he 
managed. ¡§Cameron, come close. I must ask you something.¡¨ 
Buck looked at Tsion, who nodded, and he pulled his chair closer to Chaim's. ¡§I 
always wondered why you had not come to Nicolae's first meeting with his new 
leadership team at the United Nations. Remember?¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§Forgive me for spitting on you, Cameron, but I cannot speak another way just 
now.¡¨ 
¡§Don't give it a second thought.¡¨ 
¡§I could not fathom it! The privilege of a lifetime, the opportunity no self-respecting 
journalist could miss. You were invited. I invited you! You said you would come, 
and yet you did not. It was the talk of New York. You were demoted because of it. 
Why? Why did you not come?¡¨ 

¡§I was there, Chaim.¡¨ 
¡§No one saw you there! Nicolae was disappointed, enraged. Everyone asked about 
you. Your boss, what was his name?¡¨ 
¡§Steve Plank.¡¨ 
¡§Mr. Plank could not believe it! Hattie Durham was there! You were the one who 
introduced her to Carpathia, and yet you were not there when she expected you.¡¨ 
¡§I was there, Chaim.¡¨ 
¡§I was there too, Cameron. Your place at the table was empty.¡¨ 
Buck was about to say again that he was there, but he suddenly realized what was 
happening and why Chaim would bring this up again after so long. ¡§Your eyes truly 
are being opened, aren't they Chaim?¡¨ 
The old man put a quivering hand on Buck's knee. ¡§I could not understand it. It 
made no sense. Jonathan Stonagal had embarrassed Nicolae by going after you. 
Nicolae shamed him into committing suicide, and he killed Joshua Todd-Cothran in 
the process.¡¨ 
Buck wanted to say he had seen it and that was not the way it had happened, but he 
waited. 
¡§None of it made sense,¡¨ Rosenzweig whined. ¡§None of it. But the eyes don't lie. 
Stonagal grabbed the gun from the security guard, shot himself and his colleague 
with him.¡¨ 
¡§No, Chaim,¡¨ Buck whispered. ¡§The eyes don't lie. But the Antichrist does.¡¨ 
Rosenzweig began to shiver until his whole body shook. He pressed his hands 
against his tender face to stop the quivering of his lips. ¡§Why were you not there, 
Cameron?¡¨ 
¡§Why would I not have been there, sir? What could have kept me away?¡¨ 
¡§I cannot imagine!¡¨ 
¡§Neither could I.¡¨ 
¡§Then why? Why?¡¨ 
Buck did not respond. He had quit trying to convince the old man. ¡§I was assigned 
to be there; my boss expected me to go.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, yes!¡¨ 
¡§It was the mother of all cover stories for the largest circulation magazine in history. 
It was the apex of my career. Would I have thrown that away?¡¨ 
Rosenzweig shook his head, tears falling, hands trembling. ¡§You would not.¡¨ 
¡§Of course I wouldn't. Who would?¡¨ 
¡§Maybe you had come to believe Nicolae was Antichrist and you didn't want to be 
exposed to him?¡¨ 

¡§By then I knew, yes, or I thought I did. I would not have gone in there without the 
protection of God.¡¨ 
¡§And you did not have it?¡¨ 
¡§I had it.¡¨ 
¡§And so why not go? You would have been the only one there with God's hand 
upon you.¡¨ 
Buck merely nodded. Rosenzweig's eyes cleared, and it appeared he was studying 
something a thousand miles away. His pupils darted back and forth. ¡§You were 
there!¡¨ 
¡§Yes, I was.¡¨ 
¡§You were there, weren't you, Cameron?¡¨ 
¡§I was, sir.¡¨ 
¡§And you saw it all!¡¨ 
¡§I saw everything.¡¨ 
¡§But you did not see what the rest of us saw.¡¨ 
¡§I saw what really happened. I saw the truth.¡¨ Chaim' s hands fluttered beside his 
head, and through clenched teeth he described what he had once seen and what he 
now saw anew. ¡§Nicolae! Nicolae murdered those men! He made Stonagal kneel 
before him, stuck the weapon in the man's ear, and killed the both of them with one 
shot!¡¨ 
¡§That's what happened.¡¨ 
¡§But Nicolae told us what we had seen, told us what we would remember, and our 
perception became our reality!¡¨ 
Chaim turned around and knelt, resting his fragile head in his hands, elbows on the 
seat of his chair. ¡§Oh, God, oh, God,¡¨ he prayed, ¡§open my eyes. Help me to always 
see the truth, your truth. Don't let me be led by a madman, deceived by a liar. Thank 
you, Jehovah God.¡¨ 
Slowly he stood and embraced Buck, then turned to face Tsion. ¡§Truly Nicolae is 
Antichrist,¡¨ he said. ¡§He must be stopped. I want to do whatever I have to do.¡¨ 
Tsion smiled ruefully. ¡§May I remind you that you already tried?¡¨ 
¡§I certainly did, but not for the reasons I would try today.¡¨ 
¡§If you think you know the depths of the depravity of the man,¡¨ Tsion said, ¡§wait 
till we get to what he has in mind for God's chosen people.¡¨ 
Chaim sat and reached for a pad of paper. ¡§Skip to that, Tsion. Please.¡¨ 
¡§In due time, my friend. Just a few thousand more years to go.¡¨ 
Despite his pain, David was rested. He could have used more, but he had slept the 

sleep of the drugged, and his mind¡Xat least¡Xfelt refreshed. Unfortunately, that 
made it hard for him to separate his dread over Annie from his wariness over the 
indwelt Carpathia. He had been in the presence of evil many times, but never in the 
company of Satan himself. He breathed a prayer for Annie, thanks for Nurse 
Palemoon, for Tsion who had taught him that Satan¡Xthough more powerful than 
any human¡Xwas no match for the Lord God. ¡§He is not omniscient,¡¨ Tsion had 
taught. ¡§Not omnipresent. Deceiving, persuasive, controlling, beguiling, possessive, 
oppressive, yes, but greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world.¡¨ 
¡§They're waiting for you,¡¨ Sandra told him. ¡§Apparently the risen potentate did not 
want you to miss a thing.¡¨ 
¡§Well, good then.¡¨ 
¡§And with your arrival, I leave. And that's good too. Long day.¡¨ 
¡§You and me both.¡¨ 
¡§Feeling all right? Heard you took a tumble.¡¨ 
¡§Better.¡¨ 
¡§Good night, Director Hassid. And, oh yes. He is risen.¡¨ 
David stared at her and was struck by the plainness of her forehead compared to that 
of the beautiful, dark sister he had just met. ¡§He is risen indeed,¡¨ he said, meaning 
just what he said. 
He knocked and entered and was dazed when not only Carpathia and Fortunato 
stood, but all the other managers too. ¡§My beloved David,¡¨ Carpathia began, ¡§how 
good that you were up to joining us.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you,¡¨ David said as Intelligence Director Jim Hickman pushed out a chair 
for him. 
¡§Yes,¡¨ Hickman said. ¡§How good it is!¡¨ He beamed, peeking at Carpathia as if to 
see whether he had pleased the boss. The potentate pursed his lips and squinted, 
ignoring Hickman. To David it appeared purposeful. Hickman was Fortunato's 
choice, and Carpathia had scarcely hidden his opinion of the man as a buffoon. 
The team of two dozen, plus Nicolae and Leon, sat around a huge mahogany table 
in Nicolae's office, the first time David had been there for this size of a meeting. 
David felt a dark foreboding as he sat and was shaken to see a well-worn Bible on 
the table in front of Nicolae. Everyone else sat when David did, but Carpathia 
remained standing. The man seemed energized, his breath coming quickly in great 
gasps that whistled through his teeth. It was as if he were a football player caged in 
the locker room before kickoff of a championship game. 
¡§Gentlemen and ladies,¡¨ he began, ¡§I have a new lease on life!¡¨ 
The room exploded with laughter, and when it waned, Nicolae was still laughing. 
¡§Trust me, there is nothing like waking from the dead!¡¨ 

The others nodded and smiled. David was aware of Security Chief Walter Moon's 
gaze, so he offered a cursory nod. 
¡§Oh, I was dead, people, lest anyone wonder.¡¨ They shook their heads. ¡§Mr. 
Fortunato, we should publish photographs from the autopsy, the coroner's report, 
the rising itself. There will always be skeptics, but anyone who was there knows the 
truth.¡¨ 
¡§We know,¡¨ several said. 
David felt evil emanating so pervasively from Carpathia that he sat rigid and 
worried he might faint. Suddenly Nicolae faced him. ¡§Director Hassid, you were 
there.¡¨ 
¡§I was, sir.¡¨ 
¡§You had a good view?¡¨ 
¡§Perfect, sir.¡¨ 
¡§You saw me rise from the dead.¡¨ 
¡§I'll never deny it.¡¨ 
Carpathia chuckled warmly. He strode to his desk and stood behind the huge, 
stuffed, red leather chair. He caressed it, then massaged it deeply. ¡§It is as if I am 
seeing this for the first time,¡¨ he said to twenty-four pairs of admiring eyes. ¡§Leon, 
what is directly above my office?¡¨ 
¡§Why, nothing, sir. We are on eighteen, the top floor.¡¨ 
¡§No utility room, no elevator-maintenance area?¡¨ 
¡§Nothing, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I want more room, Leon. Are you taking notes?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ L ¡§What do you have so far?¡¨ 
¡§Autopsy photos, coroner's report, the rising.¡¨ 
¡§Add the expansion of my office. I want it twice as high, with a transparent ceiling 
that exposes me to the heavens.¡¨ 
¡§Consider it done, Excellency.¡¨ 
¡§How soon?¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§Who would know that?¡¨ Fortunato pointed at the 
construction director, who waved a tentative hand. ¡§Yes, sir,¡¨ Nicolae pressed, ¡§and 
may I assume this would be top priority?¡¨ 
¡§You bet your life,¡¨ the man said, and Carpathia nearly collapsed in laughter. 
¡§Let me tell you something, Director. I know you must displace me for a few days 
because of the mess it will be to raze and raise this ceiling. But I want this done as 
fast as humanly possible, and do you know why?¡¨ 
¡§I have an idea, sir.¡¨ 

¡§Do you?¡¨ The man nodded. ¡§By all means, let us hear it!¡¨ 
¡§Because I don't believe you are human anymore, and you could do it faster than 
my team on its best day.¡¨ 
¡§Only God bestows such wisdom, Director.¡¨ 
¡§I believe I am in his presence, Potentate.¡¨ Nicolae smiled. ¡§I believe you are too.¡¨ 
He turned and gestured to all. ¡§When I lay there dead for three days, my spirit was 
so strong and powerful that I knew, I knew, I knew my time would come. When 
death had enjoyed victory over me long enough, I willed myself to live again. I 
raised myself, people. I raised myself back to life.¡¨ 
A murmur filled the room as the men and women approved aloud and pressed their 
hands together as if praying to him or worshiping him. 
Nicolae picked up the Bible in what seemed to David a loving manner. ¡§You may 
wonder what this is doing here,¡¨ he said. He opened it and let it plop spine first onto 
the table. ¡§This is the playbook of those who oppose me. This is the holy book of 
those who do not recognize me and who will not, despite what they saw with their 
own eyes.¡¨ He slammed a fist onto the book. ¡§This holds the lies about the chosen 
people of God and the supreme lie that there is one above me.¡¨ His team, save one, 
murmured disapproval. Carpathia stood back from the end of the table and folded 
his arms, legs spread. ¡§We shall use their very blueprint to bring them to their 
knees. The Jews who worship their coming Messiah in their own Holy Land, in 
their beloved city where they deigned slay me. I shall return there triumphant, and 
they will have one opportunity to repent and see the light. 
¡§And the Judah-ites, who believe Messiah already came and went, who believe 
Jesus is their Savior¡Xand whom I see nowhere; do you?¡Xalso trace their heritage 
to Jerusalem. If they want to see the true and living god, let them journey there, for 
that is where I shall soon be. If the sacred temple is the residence of the most high 
God, then the most high god shall reside there, high on the throne. 
¡§In the city where they slew me, they shall see me, high and lifted up.¡¨ 
Many directors raised fists of victory and encouragement. 
¡§Now, some plans. As I have left no doubt in any thinking person's mind about who 
I am, I no longer feel the need for a buffer between my team and me. While my dear 
comrade, Supreme Commander Leon Fortunato, has ably assisted me since first I 
came to power, I have need of him now in another crucial role, one he has already 
accepted with enthusiasm. What was once nobly attempted and ultimately failed 
shall now be consummated in success and victory. 
¡§The Enigma Babylon One World Faith failed because, despite its lofty goal of 
unifying the world's religions, it worshiped no god but itself. It was devoted to 
unity, yet that was never achieved. Its god was nebulous and impersonal. But with 
Leon Fortunato as Most High Reverend Father of Carpathianism, the devout of the 
world finally have a personal god whose might and power and glory have been 

demonstrated in the raising, of himself, from the dead!¡¨ 
Many applauded and Carpathia motioned to Leon to rise and speak as he himself 
backed away but remained standing. 
¡§I am deeply humbled by this assignment,¡¨ Leon said, moving to Nicolae, dropping 
to his knees, and kissing the potentate's hands. He rose and moved back to the head 
of the table. ¡§Let me clarify, not that His Excellency needs any help from a mere 
mortal, that the very name of the new religion was my idea. It was no stroke of 
brilliance. What else could we call a faith in which the object of our worship is His 
Excellency? 
¡§The outpouring of emotion from the citizens this very day spurred the idea that we 
should reproduce the image of His Excellency, the great statue, and erect it in all the 
major cities throughout the world. Plans have already been sent out, and each city is 
required to have the image constructed. They will be only a quarter of the size of the 
original, which as you know, is four times life-size. It doesn't take a scientist to 
figure out, then, that the replicas will be exactly life-size. 
¡§While our beloved potentate lay dead, he imbued me with power to call fire from 
the sky to kill those who would oppose him. He blessed me with the power to give 
speech to the statue so we could hear his own heart. This confirmed in me the desire 
to serve him as my god for the rest of my days, and I shall do that for as long as 
Nicolae Carpathia gives me breath.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you, my beloved servant,¡¨ Nicolae said as Leon sat. ¡§Now, blessed 
comrades, I have written assignments for one and all. These were prepared just 
before my demise and now will make more sense than ever to you. First, one of my 
oldest and dearest friends, a woman closer to me than a relative, shall explain 
something to you. Ms. Ivins, if you would come.¡¨ 
Viv Ivins, prim and proper, her blue-gray hair piled atop her head, made her way to 
the head of the table and embraced Nicolae. As she passed out file folders with each 
director's name inscribed on them, Nicolae said, ¡§Many of you know that Ms. Ivins 
helped raise me. Indeed for many years I believed she was my aunt¡Xwe were that 
close. She has been working on a project that will help me put in place certain 
unfortunately necessary controls on the citizenry. Most people are devoted to 
me¡Xwe know that. Many who were not or who were undecided are now decidedly 
with us, and, you will agree, for good reason. 
¡§But there are those factions, primarily the two that I have already mentioned, who 
are not loyal. Perhaps now they have seen the error of their ways and will 
henceforth be loyal. If so, they will have no trouble with the safeguards I feel must 
be initiated. I am asking those loyal to the Global Community, specifically to me 
and to the unified faith, to willingly bear a mark of loyalty.¡¨ 
Walter Moon stood. ¡§Sir, I beg of you, allow me to be the first to bear your mark.¡¨ 
¡§Let us not get ahead of ourselves, brother,¡¨ Nicolae said. ¡§You may just get your 

wish, and while I am touched by your sentiment, how do you know that I will not 
brand you with an iron like a head of cattle?¡¨ 
Moon spread his hands on the table and bowed his head. ¡§As you, my lord, are my 
witness, I would endure it and bear it with endless pride.¡¨ 
¡§My, my,¡¨ Nicolae said, ¡§if Director Moon's sentiment is shared by the populace, 
we shall need no enforcement measures, shall we?¡¨ 
David peeked at his packet and fanned the pages until his eye fell on a startling 
word. ¡§Guillotines?¡¨ he said aloud before he could stop himself. 
¡§Now we are ahead of ourselves,¡¨ Nicolae said. ¡§Needless to say, such would be a 
last resort and I pray it will never be needed.¡¨ 
¡§I would gladly offer my head,¡¨ Moon rhapsodized, ¡§if I should be so foolish as to 
deny my lord.¡¨ 
Nicolae turned to David. ¡§You are responsible for technical purchasing, correct?¡¨ 
David nodded. 
¡§I do not imagine we have an adequate supply of immediate-response mechanisms 
for the reluctant. We must study the expected need and be prepared. As I have said, 
my loftiest dream is that not one would refuse the loyalty mark. Ms. Ivins, please.¡¨ 
¡§The first page of your folders,¡¨ she began, in a precise and articulate tone with a 
hint of her native Romanian dialect, ¡§long before you reach the guillotines¡X¡¨ she 
paused for the chuckling, in which David did not join¡X¡§is a listing of the ten world 
regions and a corresponding number. It is the product of a mathematical equation 
that identifies those regions and their relationships to His Excellency the Potentate. 
The loyalty mark, which I shall explain in detail, shall begin with these numbers, 
thus identifying the home region of every citizen. The subsequent numbers, 
embedded on a biochip inserted under the skin, will further identify the person to 
the point where every one shall be unique.¡¨ 
Suddenly, as if in a trance, Leon rose and began to speak. ¡§Every man, woman, and 
child, regardless of their station in life, shall receive this mark on their right hands 
or on their foreheads. Those who neglect to get the mark when it is made available 
will not be allowed to buy or sell until such time as they receive it. Those who 
overtly refuse shall be put to death, and every marked loyal citizen shall be 
deputized with the right and the responsibility to report such a one. The mark shall 
consist of the name of His Excellency or the prescribed number.¡¨ 
With that, Leon dropped heavily into his chair. Viv Ivins smiled benevolently and 
said, ¡§Why, thank you, Reverend,¡¨ which caused all, including Leon, to laugh. 
David was afraid his crashing heart and shaking hands would make him 
conspicuous. What if someone got the bright idea to apply the mark to the inner 
circle that very night? He might be in heaven before Annie knew he was dead. 
¡§We have settled on the technology,¡¨ Viv continued. ¡§The miniature biochip with 

the suffix numbers embedded in it can be inserted as painlessly as a vaccination in a 
matter of seconds. Citizens may choose either location, and visible will be a thin, 
half-inch scar, and to its immediate left, in six-point black ink-impossible to remove 
under penalty of law¡Xthe number that designates the home region of the individual. 
That number may be included in the embedded chip, should the person prefer that 
one of the variations of the name of the potentate appear on their flesh.¡¨ 
¡§Variations?¡¨ someone asked. 
¡§Yes. Most, we assume, will prefer the understated numbers next to the thin scar. 
But they may also choose from the small initials¡Xno bigger than the 
numbers¡XN/C. The first or last name may be used, including one version of 
Nicolae that would virtually cover the left side of the forehead.¡¨ 
¡§For the most loyal,¡¨ Nicolae said with a grin. ¡§Someone like, oh, say, Director 
Hickman, for instance.¡¨ 
Hickman blushed but called out, ¡§Sign me up, Viv!¡¨ 
¡§The beauty of the embedded chip is twofold,¡¨ she continued. ¡§First, it leaves the 
visible evidence of loyalty to the potentate, and second, it serves as a method of 
payment and receipting for buying and selling. Eye-level scanners will allow 
customers and merchants to merely pass by and be billed or receipted.¡¨ 
Several whistles of admiration sounded. David's head throbbed. He raised his hand. 
¡§Director Hassid,¡¨ Viv said. ¡§What are you looking at in the way of timing?¡¨ 
¡§Worried that your head won't take any more invasion just now?¡¨ she said, smiling. 
¡§I had an IV in the hand too.¡¨ 
¡§Not to worry,¡¨ she said. ¡§While the potentate and the former Supreme Commander 
see value in employees serving as examples to the world, you will have thirty days, 
beginning tomorrow, to fulfill your obligation.¡¨ 
¡§I'll do it tonight,¡¨ someone said, ¡§and I'm not even Hickman!¡¨ 
A month, David thought. A month to get out of Dodge. What would become of him 
and Annie and Mac and Abdullah? And Hannah Palemoon? 
Viv said that over the next few days she would be sure each director knew his or her 
part in the rollout of images of Carpathia and the application of the mark of loyalty. 
Meanwhile, she said, ¡§His Excellency has a closing comment.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you, Viv,¡¨ Nicolae said. ¡§Allow me to tell you just one story of a family I 
met today, and you know I met thousands. We have such a nucleus of loyal 
citizenry! This was a beautifully loyal Asian family named Wong.¡¨ 
David fought to maintain his composure. ¡§Their daughter already works for us at 
Buffer in Brussels. The parents are well-to-do and great supporters of the Global 
Community. The father was quite proud of his family and of his record of loyalty. 
But I was most impressed with the seventeen-year-old son, Chang. Here is a boy 
who, according to his father, loves me and everything about the world as we see it 

today. He wants nothing more than to work for me here at the palace, and though he 
has another year of high school, would rather bring his talents our way. 
¡§And such talents! I will arrange for the completion of his schooling here, because 
he is a genius! He can program any computer, analyze and fix any procedural or 
operational or systems problem. And this is not just a proud father talking. He 
showed me documents, grades, letters of recommendation. This kind of boy is our 
future, and our future has never looked brighter.¡¨ 
That boy, David thought, would die before he took the mark. 
SIX 
As Rayford followed the wheelchair down the hall, barely able to breathe, his mind 
reeled with his mistakes. Were it somehow possible to extricate himself from this, 
he would be the most decisive leader the Tribulation Force could imagine. 
They repaired to an office even smaller than the original. Pinkerton Stephens 
opened the door and neatly pivoted his chair so he could hold it open and leave 
room for Rayford and Albie to enter. He pointed Rayford to a steel gray chair near 
the wall, facing a desk of the same color and material. Albie sat to Rayford's left. 
Stephens let the door shut and locked it, breathed something nasally about the room 
being secure and not bugged, then steered himself to the other side of the desk, 
plowing a standard chair out of the way. He maneuvered his wheelchair up to and 
under the desk, leaned forward and rested his elbows atop it, and folded his hand 
and a half under his chin. 
Part of Rayford could hardly bear to look at the man; another part could not take his 
eyes off him. ¡§Now then,¡¨ Stephens began slowly, ¡§Deputy Commander Elbaz¡Xif 
that's your real name¡Xyou may restrap your side arm and keep your hand off it. 
We're both on the same team, and you have nothing to fear. As for you, Mr. Berry, 
while you may be out of uniform and likely using an alias yourself, neither do you 
have anything to fear. You are about to be pleasantly surprised to find that the three 
of us are on the same team.¡¨ 
Rayford wanted to say, ¡§I doubt it,¡¨ but feared he would emit no sound if he tried. 
¡§Shall we start over, gentlemen?¡¨ Stephens said. If only . . ., Rayford thought. 
¡§Mr. Elbaz, as the superior officer, I believe it falls to you to begin our session with 
the proper protocol.¡¨ 
¡§He is risen,¡¨ Albie said, miserably in Rayford's opinion. 
¡§Who is risen indeed?¡¨ Stephens responded, and Rayford attributed the 
mispronunciation to the man's malady, whatever it was. Albie just stared at 
Stephens. Rayford noticed that while Albie had taken his hand off his gun, he had 

not fastened the strap. Rayford wondered if he could grab the gun, kill them both, 
and get away with Hattie. 
¡§Commander Elbaz, you have business here, and I will let you get to it after I satisfy 
the curiosity on both your parts. I realize that I am difficult to look at, that you both 
have to be wondering what happened to me, and that as hard as I have worked on 
my speech, I am difficult to understand. Have either of you ever seen someone with 
most of his face missing?¡¨ 
Both shook their heads, and Stephens placed his good thumb beneath his chin. 
¡§Once I remove my prosthesis, I will be unable to be understood at all, and so I will 
not attempt to speak.¡¨ Snap! 
Rayford flinched as Stephens unsnapped the plastic covering under his chin. Snap! 
Snap! 
As he continued, it became clear that the prosthesis was all one piece that 
substituted for most of his chin, nose, eye sockets, and forehead. It was held in place 
by metal fasteners embedded in what was left of the original facial bones. Stephens 
kept it in place with his stub-fingered hand and said, ¡§Prepare yourselves; I won't 
make you look long.¡¨ 
Albie held up a hand. ¡§Mr. Stephens, this is unnecessary. We have business here, 
yes, and I don't see the need to¡X¡¨ 
He stopped when Stephens pulled the piece away from his face, revealing a 
monstrous cavity. Only what was left of his lips hinted at anything human, and 
Rayford fought to keep from covering his own eyes. The man had no nose and his 
entire eyeballs were exposed. Through gaps in his forehead, Rayford believed he 
could see through to the brain. 
Rayford could breathe again when Stephens refastened the appliance. ¡§Forgive me, 
gentlemen,¡¨ he said, ¡§but just as I assumed, neither of you really saw what I wanted 
you to see.¡¨ 
¡§And what was that?¡¨ Albie said, clearly shaken. 
¡§Something that explains what I see on your faces.¡¨ 
¡§I'm lost,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Oh, but you're not,¡¨ Stephens said with a twisted smile. ¡§You once were lost, but 
now you're found. Would you like me to remove the prosthesis again and¡X¡¨ 
¡§No,¡¨ Rayford and Albie said in unison. And Albie added, ¡§Just get to the point.¡¨ 
Pinkerton folded his hands beneath his chin again, and his eyes seemed to bore into 
Albie. ¡§How did I respond when you said, 'He is risen'?¡¨ 
Albie seemed to have regained his voice and composure. ¡§Sounded like you said, 
'Who is risen indeed?' ¡¨ 
¡§That's what I said. What's your answer?¡¨ 

Albie shifted and cleared his throat. ¡§I believe the protocol is that I say, 'He is risen,' 
and that you respond, 'He is risen indeed.' ¡¨ 
¡§Fair enough, but my question remains. Who is risen indeed?¡¨ 
So, Rayford concluded, somehow he's onto me. And yet he sat silent, knowing a 
moment of truth had arrived and waiting to see what would come of it. 
¡§Humor me one more time, Commander.¡¨ 
Albie sighed and glanced at Rayford. Albie's phony mark sure looked real. ¡§He is 
risen,¡¨ Albie muttered. 
¡§Who is risen indeed?¡¨ Stephens said, forcing another smile through the misshapen 
lips. 
¡§Oh, for Pete's sake!¡¨ Albie said. ¡§I'm tired of this game.¡¨ 
¡§Christ!¡¨ Stephens whispered excitedly. ¡§Come on, brothers! The answer to the 
question is 'Christ!' Christ is risen indeed! I see the marks of the believer on both 
your foreheads! You missed mine for the horror of the rest of my face. Now look!¡¨ 
He unfastened the prosthesis from the top this time and merely peeled it back. 
Rayford and Albie leaned forward, and there, amidst the gore, the mark was clear. 
As Stephens reapplied the piece, Rayford turned and grabbed Albie's head in both 
hands. He cupped the back with his left hand and rubbed the forehead hard with his 
right. ¡§Satisfied?¡¨ Albie said, smiling. Rayford felt like jelly. He flopped back in his 
chair, panting and unable to move. 
¡§So who are you anyway?¡¨ Stephens said. Rayford leaned forward, ¡§I'm¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I know who you are. I knew almost immediately, though I like the new look. 
But who's this character?¡¨ Albie introduced himself. 
Stephens leaned forward and shook his hand. He nodded to Rayford. ¡§I've got Mr. 
Steele completely dumb-founded, don't I?¡¨ 
¡§That's an understatement,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§You and I both worked for Carpathia at 
the same time, Rayford, and before that your son-in-law worked for me.¡¨ 
¡§Steve Plank?¡¨ 
¡§In the flesh, or what's left of it. Crushed, chopped up, burned, and left for dead by 
the wrath of the Lamb earthquake. I'd been on the edge for weeks, reading Buck's 
stuff, realizing things about Carpathia. I decided that if Buck and other believers 
were right about a global earthquake, I was in at the sound of the first tremor. I was 
praying the prayer as the building came down.¡¨ 
Rayford shook his head. ¡§But why the ruse¡Xwhy work for the GC again?¡¨ 
¡§It came to me in the hospital. No one, including me, knew who I was. When my 
memory returned, I made up a name and a history. That was twenty-one months 
ago, and all through a year of therapy and rehab, I had time to think about where I 
wanted to land. I wanted to take Carpathia down from the inside.¡¨ 

¡§But why not tell anyone? Everyone thought you were dead.¡¨ 
¡§The best secrets are kept between two people, providing one of them is dead. One 
of the most shameless stunts Carpathia pulled was how he treated Hattie Durham. I 
got myself into the Peacekeeping Force and kept my eye on her till I tracked her out 
here. I prayed this day would come. I'll follow orders, obey the rules, do my job, 
and you'll rescue her.¡¨ 
David panicked. After sitting through the surreal performance by Carpathia, 
Fortunato, and Viv Ivins, he was in line to leave with the others. But Carpathia 
stood by the door, accepting embraces, handshakes, kisses, and bowing from each 
director. The shameless Hickman fell to his knees and wrapped his arms around 
Nicolae's knees, weeping loudly. The potentate rolled his eyes and gave Fortunato a 
look that would have put a wart on a gravestone. 
When he was about sixth in line, David prayed desperately. What was he to do? In 
the flesh he wanted to fake whatever he had to fake in order to not be found out and 
jeopardize the rest of the Force. But he could not, would not, bow the knee to 
Antichrist. It was impossible that his breach of etiquette would go unnoticed. From 
what he could tell, it appeared he would be the only director who did not gush over 
the resurrected leader. 
¡§God, help me!¡¨ he prayed silently. Was this the end? Should he merely bolt now 
and hope for the best? Or shake Carpathia's hand and say something neutral: ¡§Glad 
you're feeling better after that dying thing¡¨ ? ¡§Welcome back¡¨? 
Except for his obvious disgust with Hickman, Carpathia oozed graciousness and 
humility as his people poured on the sugar. ¡§Oh, thank you. I am grateful for your 
partnership and support. Great days ahead. Yes. Yes.¡¨ 
Now second in line, David was nauseated. Literally. His tender scalp vibrated 
against the bandages with every beat of his heart. He tried to pray, tried to be 
sensitive to what God wanted him to do. But as the director in front of him finally 
pulled away from a long embrace of the potentate, David stood there blankly. 
Carpathia spread his arms and said, ¡§David, my beloved David.¡¨ 
David could not move and sensed the turning heads of those nearby. Carpathia 
looked puzzled, seeming to beckon him. David said, ¡§Pothen-potenth-Exshell¡X¡¨ 
and pitched forward. His last image before crashing to the floor, head banging the 
marble, was that he had vomited all over Carpathia. 
¡§How you doing, Zeke?¡¨ Buck said. 
He pictured the all-black-wearing, flabby forger huddled underground at his dad's 
one-pump filling station in ravaged Des Plaines. ¡§I'm OK,¡¨ came the whispered 
reply. ¡§I been watchin' TV to keep from gettin' bored, and I got all kinds of food 
down here. Kinda dark though. And 'course there's nothing on but all this Carpathia 
junk.¡¨ 
¡§Have you been keeping an eye on the GC?¡¨ 

¡§Yeah, every time I hear a car I scoot over to my monitor and watch what they do. 
Some of these people aren't even our real customers. They just see the pump and 
stop in. Then the GC car swings over from across the road and parks right in front 
of 'em.¡¨ 
¡§A jeep?¡¨ 
¡§No, it's a little four door, a dark compact.¡¨ 
¡§Good.¡¨ 
¡§Why's that good, Mr. Williams?¡¨ 
¡§Because when I come for you, I'm going to be in a white Hummer, and it'll squash 
a compact like a bug.¡¨ 
¡§It's not a VW, sir. It's¡X¡¨ 
¡§That was just an expression, Zeke.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I getcha.¡¨ 
¡§So they don't pull up in front and behind the car?¡¨ 
¡§No, there's only one GC car over there. I looked.¡¨ 
¡§You did?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah. I know I shouldn't have, but I was real bored, so I sneaked up the stairs 
where I was still in the dark and could see across the way. You know this road never 
really got rebuilt. They threw some asphalt on it a little over a year ago, but there 
was no real base, so it went to potholes and now it's just chunks of pavement. We 
don't get much traffic.¡¨ 
¡§You don't think the GC knows you're there, do you?¡¨ 
¡§Nope, and I'm real sure they don't know there's a basement. There didn't use to be. 
Dad and I dug it ourselves.¡¨ 
¡§Where's the debris?¡¨ 
¡§Out back, through the door at the back of the service bay.¡¨ 
¡§Hmm, never noticed it. How close are the secret stairs to the underground?¡¨ 
¡§Maybe ten feet. It's kinda hidden in the corner.¡¨ 
¡§So if I was to drive to the back of the station, I'd see a door right about in the 
middle of the building, a door you could get to by sneaking up the stairs and moving 
about ten feet along the back wall.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah.¡¨ 
¡§So if you knew exactly when I was coming, you could sneak out the back without 
the GC stakeout guys seeing you.¡¨ 
¡§They'd probably see you, though.¡¨ 
¡§I'll worry about that. We don't want them to know you were ever in the 

underground. You come out and crawl in the back and I'll have a blanket you can 
hide under.¡¨ 
¡§I'll have a lot of my stuff.¡¨ 
¡§That's OK. If they see me and stop me, I'll bluff my way out of it, but I'm going to 
try to do it in a way where they won't even know I'm there.¡¨ 
A beep told Buck he had another call. It was Rayford. ¡§Zeke, let me call you back. 
It could be a while, so be packed.¡¨ He pushed the button. ¡§Buck here.¡¨ 
¡§Buck, you're not going to believe who I just prayed with.¡¨ 
¡§Hattie?¡¨ 
¡§No, you'd never guess.¡¨ 
David awoke in the palace hospital during the wee hours to someone caressing his 
hand. 
¡§Don't speak,¡¨ she whispered. It was Nurse Pale-moon. ¡§You're a celebrity.¡¨ 
¡§lam?¡¨ 
¡§Shh. It's all over the palace that you blew chunks on Carpathia.¡¨ 
David was on an IV again. He felt better. ¡§Did you change my dressing?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, now be quiet.¡¨ 
¡§I thought you were off duty.¡¨ 
¡§So did I, but I was yanked in here because I was the one who had stitched you up, 
and you know no doctor was going to be dragged out of bed.¡¨ 
¡§Hannah, I've got to get out of here.¡¨ 
¡§No, you should have been with us a few days anyway, and now you've got the 
chance.¡¨ 
¡§I can't and neither can you.¡¨ He quickly whispered what he had learned at the 
meeting. ¡§We've got to be out of here before thirty days from today or be prepared 
for the consequences.¡¨ 
¡§I'm prepared, David. Aren't you?¡¨ 
¡§You know what I mean. I've got to find my fiancee and my pilots, and if you know 
of any other believers¡X¡¨ 
¡§Fiancee? You're attached?¡¨ 
¡§The Phoenix cargo chief, Annie Christopher.¡¨ 
¡§I don't know what to tell you, David. If she were here, she'd be in the system by 
now.¡¨ 
¡§Would you check again for me? And see if you can get Mac McCullum and 
Abdullah Smith to visit me.¡¨ 
¡§That's quite an alias, Albie,¡¨ Plank said. ¡§You want me to report that a Deputy 

Commander Elbaz came in here with the proper credentials and that I followed the 
letter of the law?¡¨ 
¡§I'm so visible on the GC database, no one will even question it,¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§They'll probably wonder why they haven't met me yet.¡¨ 
¡§And soon enough,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§I'll be enlisted and we'll make sure Albie reports 
to me. I just worry about compromising our inside guy, the one who sets this stuff 
up for us.¡¨ 
¡§How will they trace it to him or even to the palace?¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§I don't know. Maybe he's precluded that, but we'll have to let him know what's 
happening.¡¨ 
Plank led them out the door and down the hall, past the receptionist and into the cell 
area. ¡§I heard a noise back there a minute ago,¡¨ Mrs. Garner called out from the 
desk. 
¡§Trouble?¡¨ 
¡§Somethin' banging, that's all.¡¨ 
Plank led the men to Hattie's door and knocked but heard no response. ¡§Ma'am,¡¨ he 
called out, ¡§GC personnel are here to transport you back to Buffer.¡¨ He winked at 
Rayford and Albie. ¡§May I come in, ma'am?¡¨ 
Plank fished for his key ring, unlocked the door, and pushed it open about an inch 
until it met resistance. Albie and Rayford stepped forward to help, but Plank said, ¡§I 
got this.¡¨ 
He backed up his chair, then threw it forward, bashing into the door and pushing 
past the bed that had been wedged against it. ¡§Oh, no!¡¨ he said, and Rayford 
stepped over him, driving his shoulder into the door to force his way in. 
The room was dark, but when he flipped the light switch, sparks startled him from 
the ceiling where the fixture had been. Light from the hall showed the fixture now 
on the floor, knotted at the end of a sheet. The other end was tight around Hattie's 
neck, and she lay there twitching. 
¡§Tried to hang herself from a flimsy light,¡¨ Plank said, as Albie leaped past him and 
slid up to Hattie on his knees. He and Rayford dug and tore at the sheet until it came 
loose. Rayford gently turned her on her back, and she flopped like a dead woman. 
As his eyes grew accustomed to the dark, he saw that hers were open, pupils dilated. 
¡§She was moving!¡¨ Albie whispered, grabbing her belt and lifting her hips off the 
floor. Rayford plugged her nose, forced her mouth open, and clamped his mouth 
over hers. Her tiny frame rose and fell as he breathed into her, and Albie applied 
pressure to help her breathe out. 
¡§Shut the door,¡¨ Albie told Plank. 
¡§You don't need the light?¡¨ 

¡§Shut it!¡¨ he whispered desperately. ¡§We're going to save this girl, but nobody but 
us is going to know it.¡¨ 
Plank steered his chair to push the bed out of the way, then shut the door. 
¡§She's got a pulse,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§You OK, Ray? Want me to take over?¡¨ 
Rayford shook his head and continued until Hattie began to cough. Finally she 
gulped in huge breaths and blew them out. Rayford sat heavily on the floor, his back 
against the wall. Hattie cried and swore. ¡§I can't even kill myself,¡¨ she hissed. ¡§Why 
didn't you let me die? I can't go back to Buffer!¡¨ 
She collapsed in tears and lay rocking on the floor on her knees and elbows. 
¡§She doesn't recognize anybody,¡¨ Albie said. 
Hattie looked up, squinting. Rayford leaned over and turned on a small lamp. ¡§No, I 
don't,¡¨ she said, peering at Albie and glancing at Rayford. ¡§I know Commander 
Pinkerton here, but who are you losers?¡¨ 
Albie pointed to Rayford. ¡§He saved your life. I'm just his loser friend.¡¨ 
Hattie sat in the middle of the floor, her knees pulled up, hands clasped around 
them. And she swore again. 
¡§You're not going to Buffer, Hattie,¡¨ Rayford said finally, and it was clear she 
recognized his voice. 
¡§What?¡¨ she said, wonder in her voice. 
¡§Yeah, it's me,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§There are no secrets in this room.¡¨ 
¡§You came?¡¨ she squealed, scrambling to him and trying to embrace him. 
He held her away. She looked at Plank. ¡§But...¡¨ 
¡§We're all in this together,¡¨ Rayford said wearily. 
¡§I almost killed myself,¡¨ Hattie said. 
¡§Actually,¡¨ Albie said, ¡§you did.¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ 
¡§You're dead.¡¨ 
¡§What are you talking about?¡¨ 
¡§You want out of here? You want the GC off your back? You go out of here dead.¡¨ 
¡§What are you saying?¡¨ 
¡§You called your old friend to rescue you. He refused. You were despondent. When 
you gave up hope and were convinced you were going to Buffer, you lost all hope, 
wrote a note, and hung yourself. We came to get you, discovered you too late, and 
what could we do? Report the suicide and dispose of the body.¡¨ 
¡§I did write a note,¡¨ she said. ¡§See?¡¨ She pointed to a slip of paper that had fallen 
off the bed. 

Rayford picked it up and read it under the lamp. ¡§Thanks for nothing, old 
FRIENDS!!!¡¨ she had written. ¡§I vowed never to go back to Buffer, and I meant it. 
You can't win them all.¡¨ 
¡§Sign it,¡¨ Rayford said. 
Hattie massaged her neck and tried to clear her throat. She found her pen and signed 
the note. 
¡§How long can you hold your breath?¡¨ Albie asked. ¡§Not long enough to kill 
myself, apparently.¡¨ 
¡§We're going to wheel you out of here under a sheet, and you're going to have to 
look dead when we load you on the plane too. Can you pull that off?¡¨ 
¡§I'll do whatever I have to.¡¨ She looked at Plank. ¡§You're in on this too?¡¨ 
¡§The less you know, the better,¡¨ he said. He glanced at Albie, then Rayford. ¡§She 
never needs to know, far as I'm concerned.¡¨ They nodded. 
Plank told them to leave the sheet the way it was, with the light fixture still 
embedded in one end. ¡§Use the other sheet from the bed to cover her, and do it 
now.¡¨ 
Rayford ripped the sheet from the bed, and Hattie lay on the bare mattress. He 
floated the sheet atop her and let it settle. Plank opened the door. ¡§Mrs. Garner!¡¨ he 
called, ¡§we've had a tragedy here!¡¨ 
¡§Oh my¡X¡¨ 
¡§No, don't come! Just stay where you are. The prisoner hanged herself, and the GC 
will dispose of the remains.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Commander! I¡Xis that what I heard?¡¨ 
¡§Possibly.¡¨ 
¡§Could I have done something? Should I have?¡¨ 
¡§There's nothing you could have done, ma'am. Let's let these men do their work. 
Bring the gurney from Utility.¡¨ 
¡§I don't have to look, do I, sir?¡¨ 
¡§I'll handle it. Just get it for me. I'll dictate a report later.¡¨ 
Despite her ashen countenance and protestations, Rayford noticed that Mrs. Garner 
watched the ¡§body¡¨ until it was loaded into the minivan. He was amazed at Hattie's 
ability to look motionless under that sheet. 
Plank agreed to call ahead to the former Carpathia Memorial Airstrip to clear the 
way for Deputy Commander Elbaz and his driver to pull Judy Hamilton's vehicle 
right up to their fighter jet in order to load a body for transport. No, they would not 
need any assistance and would appreciate as little fuss as possible over it. 
Hattie slipped back under the sheet a few miles from the airstrip, and though curious 

eyes peered through the windows, Rayford and Albie carried her aboard without 
arousing undue suspicion. 
SEVEN 
Buck pulled the Hummer out of the garage under the Strong Building after dark, 
lights off. He had spent the afternoon rigging up a special connection to the brake 
lights and backup lights. Once in regular traffic outside Chicago, he didn't want to 
risk getting stopped for malfunctioning rear lights, but neither did he want those 
lights coming on when he braked at Zeke's place. 
Zeke himself was an expert at this and walked Buck through it by phone. It would 
be great when Zeke was tucked away at the new safe house, available to help with 
just those kinds of details. The brake lights were now disengaged, so with his lights 
on or off, Buck would have to manually illuminate them when applying the brake. 
A thin wire led from the back, through the backseat and up to the driver's side. If he 
could just remember to use it. 
No one knew how frequently, if ever, the GC invested the time, equipment, and 
manpower to overfly the quarantined city their own databases told them was heavily 
radioactive. It didn't make sense that anyone would be near the place. If the readings 
were true¡Xwhich David Hassid and the Tribulation Force knew was not the 
case¡Xno one could live there long. 
Still, Rayford's plan was to come and go in his helicopter from the tower in the dark 
of night. And Buck, or anyone else coming or going, would do the same from the 
garage. It was tricky going, because no light sources¡Xoutside the Strong 
Building¡Xwere engaged in the city. Unless the moon was bright, seeing anything in 
the dark was almost impossible on what used to be those miles of city streets. 
Buck pulled away slowly, the gigantic Hummer propelling itself easily over the 
jagged terrain. He wanted to get used to the vehicle, the largest he had ever driven. 
It was surprisingly comfortable, predictably powerful, and¡Xto his 
delight¡Xamazingly quiet. He had feared it would sound like a tank. 
Driving around Chicago in the dark was no way to familiarize himself with the car. 
He needed open road and the confidence that no one was paying attention. Half an 
hour later he hit the city limits and took the deserted frontage road that would 
deliver him into the suburbs without detection. He turned on his lights and set the 
manual brake light switch where he could reach it with his left hand. 
Near Park Ridge a rebuilt section actually had a few miles of new pavement and a 
couple of working traffic lights. The rest of northern Illinois seemed to have 
regressed to the earliest days of the automobile. Cars made their own trails through 
rubble, and rain sometimes made those routes impassable. 

Buck saw a couple of GC squad cars, but traffic was light. When he felt safe, he 
tested the power of the Hummer and practiced several turns at varying speeds. The 
faster he went and the sharper he turned, the more violently his body was pressed 
against the safety belt. But it seemed nothing would make the Hummer tip. Buck 
found a deserted area where he was sure no one could see him and tried a couple of 
fast turns even on inclines. The Hummer seemed to ask for more. With its 
superwide stance, its weight, and its power, it had unmatched maneuverability. 
Buck felt as if he were starring in a commercial. 
He floored the vehicle, got it up to near eighty on packed dirt, slammed on the 
brakes, and turned the wheel. The antilock system kept him from skidding or even 
hinting at going over. He couldn't wait to compete with whatever toy the GC was 
using in its stakeout in Des Plaines. 
Buck had to calm himself. The idea was to pick up Zeke undetected. He considered 
stopping at the station like a normal customer and ramming the GC as they came to 
investigate. But they had phones and radios and a communications network that 
would hem him in. If he could find a way to approach the station from the back, 
lights out, they might never see him, even after he pulled away with his quarry. 
His phone chirped. It was Zeke. ¡§You close by?¡¨ the young man said. 
¡§Not far. What's up?¡¨ 
¡§We're gonna hafta torch this place.¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ 
¡§Once they figure they've busted every rebel that used to gas up here, they're going 
to torch it anyway, right?¡¨ 
¡§Maybe,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§So why not let them?¡¨ 
¡§They might search it first.¡¨ 
¡§And find what?¡¨ 
¡§The underground, of course. I can't even think about gettin' all the stuff outta here 
that could give my dad away.¡¨ 
¡§What more can they do to him?¡¨ 
¡§All they got him on now is sellin' gas without GC approval. They fine him or make 
him sit a month or two. If they find out me and him was runnin' a rebel forgery biz 
outta here, he becomes an enemy of the state.¡¨ 
¡§Good thinking.¡¨ Buck never failed to be amazed at the street wisdom of the 
unlikely looking Zeke. Who would have guessed that the former druggie-bikertattoo 
artist would be the best phony credentials man in the business? 
¡§And remember, Mr. Williams. We were feedin' people outta here too. Groceries, 
you name it. Well, you know. You bought a bunch of 'em. OK, here's what I'm 
thinkin'. I rig up a timer to a sparking device. You know, it ain't the gas that burns 

anyway.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry?¡¨ Buck felt stupid. He had been a globe-trotting journalist, and a virtual 
illiterate was trying to tell him gasoline fires aren't what they seem? 
¡§Yeah, it's not the gas that burns. When I was workin' above ground, helpin' Dad in 
the station when it was legal and all, I used to toss my cigarettes in a bucket of gas 
we kept in the service bay.¡¨ 
¡§No, you didn't.¡¨ 
¡§I swear.¡¨ 
¡§Lit cigarettes?¡¨ 
¡§Swear to¡XI mean, honest. That was how we put 'em out. They'd hiss like you was 
tossin' 'em into a bucket o' water.¡¨ 
¡§I'm confused.¡¨ 
¡§We kept gas in there to clean our hands on. Cuts grease, you know. Like if you just 
did an axle job and now you gotta go fill a tank or write on a credit card receipt or 
something.¡¨ 
¡§I mean I'm confused about how you could throw a cigarette into a container of 
gasoline.¡¨ 
¡§Lots of people don't know that or don't believe it.¡¨ 
¡§How'd you keep from blowing yourselves to kingdom come?¡¨ 
¡§Well, if the bucket of gas was fresh, you had to wait awhile. If you saw any of that 
shimmerin' of the fumes over it, like when you first pour it in there, or when you're 
fillin' your tank, well, you don't want any open flame of any kind near that.¡¨ 
¡§But once it sat and the, uh, shimmering fumes were gone?¡¨ 
¡§Then we tossed our cigarette butts in there.¡¨ 
¡§So, it's the fumes.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, it's the fumes what burns.¡¨ 
¡§I get it. So, your thoughts?¡¨ 
¡§See, Mr. Williams, it works the same in an engine. Like a fuel-injected engine 
shoots a fine spray of gas into the cylinders and the spark plugs spark and burn it, 
but they're not burning the spray.¡¨ 
¡§The spray is emitting fumes and that's what's, in essence, exploding in the 
cylinder,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Now you've got it.¡¨ 
¡§Good. I'm heading your way, so cut to the chase.¡¨ 
¡§OK. I moved two huge boxes of stuff out by the pile of dirt in the back, and I got 
one big canvas bag. All my files, my equipment, everything is there. Even had room 
for some food.¡¨ 

¡§We have plenty of food, Zeke.¡¨ 
¡§Never have enough food. Anyway, the stuff's out there waitin'. I figure if you don't 
get seen comin', I can be waitin' for ya and load my stuff in there real quick before I 
jump in.¡¨ 
¡§Sounds like a plan. Back to the torching.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah. I've got auto parts down here. I cut a feed from the pipe that leads to the 
storage tank, which runs right by the wall we dug out here, and I hook a fuel 
injector to it. When I leave, I turn the spigot, the gas runs through the fuel injector 
and starts sprayin' gasoline.¡¨ 
¡§And pretty soon the underground is filled with gas.¡¨ 
¡§Fumes.¡¨ 
¡§Right. And you, what, toss a match down the stairs on your way out to the car?¡¨ 
Zeke laughed. 
¡§Shh.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, they can't hear me. But no, tossing a flame down here then would blow me 
all the way to Chicago. Save you a trip, eh?¡¨ 
¡§So how do you ignite it?¡¨ 
¡§Put a spark plug on a timer. Give myself five minutes or so, just in case. At the 
right time, kaboom.¡¨ 
¡§Kaboom.¡¨ 
¡§Bingo.¡¨ 
¡§Zeke, even if I agreed, you'd never have time to rig that all up. I'm not ten minutes 
away.¡¨ 
¡§I figured you'd agree.¡¨ 
¡§And so¡X?¡¨ 
¡§It's all done.¡¨ 
¡§You're kiddin' me.¡¨ 
¡§Nope. If you're ten minutes away, I'll set the timer for fifteen, and when I leave I'll 
open the spigot.¡¨ 
¡§Hoo, boy, you're resourceful.¡¨ 
¡§I know how to do stuff.¡¨ 
¡§You sure do, but do me a favor.¡¨ 
¡§Name it.¡¨ 
¡§Set the timer for five, but don't start it until after you've turned the spigot on your 
way out. Deal?¡¨ 
¡§Deal.¡¨ 

¡§Oh, and one more thing. Make sure I'm there before you open that spigot.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, yeah, right. That would be important.¡¨ 
¡§Kaboom, Zeke.¡¨ 
¡§Bingo.¡¨ 
¡§Call you when I get there.¡¨ 
¡§Her name is not in our system, David,¡¨ Nurse Palemoon said. He tried to sit up and 
she shushed him. ¡§That doesn't have to mean the worst.¡¨ 
¡§How can you say that? The sun is coming up, and I haven't heard from her. She'd 
communicate with me if she could!¡¨ 
¡§David, you must calm down. This room is empty but not secure. Your friends are 
on their way, but you can't trust anyone else.¡¨ 
¡§Tell me about it. Hannah, you have got to get me out of here. I can't stay here 
another few days. There is so much I have do before leaving New Babylon.¡¨ 
¡§I can supply you with extra meds and dressings and try to make sure you're set, but 
you're going to be sore.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not worried about that. Will you¡X¡¨ His throat caught and he couldn't say it. 
¡§Ah, would you¡X¡¨ 
¡§You want me to check the morgue?¡¨ She said it with such compassion that he 
nearly broke down. 
He nodded. 
¡§I'll be right back. If your friends get here while I'm gone, remind them there are 
ears everywhere.¡¨ 
Rayford and Albie and their human cargo from Colorado put down at a tiny airstrip 
near Bozeman, Montana, rather than try to get back to Kankakee without sleep. 
Albie bluffed and blustered the tiny GC contingent at the strip, who bought his story 
of transporting a criminal and let the three of them borrow a jeep to get into town. 
Such as it was. Bozeman had been left with few amenities, but one was a nearly 
deserted motel where they rented two rooms. ¡§I don't guess we have to worry about 
you bolting,¡¨ Rayford told Hattie. 
¡§Compared to Buffer,¡¨ she said, ¡§the new safe house sounds like heaven.¡¨ 
¡§You'll be in for the pitches of your life,¡¨ he said. ¡§There are more of us, and you're 
going to be our prime target.¡¨ 
¡§I might just listen for once,¡¨ she said. 
¡§Don't say that lightly.¡¨ 
¡§I don't say anything lightly anymore.¡¨ Hattie had a million questions about 
Pinkerton Stephens, but Rayford and Albie told her only that ¡§he is one of us.¡¨ Then 
she wanted Albie's story, and he told of becoming a believer after a lifetime as a 

Muslim. ¡§You know who I mean when I mention Tsion Ben-Judah then?¡¨ he said. 
¡§Do I know?¡¨ she said. ¡§I know him personally. Talk about a man who loves the 
unlovable ...¡¨ 
¡§Are you speaking of yourself, young lady?¡¨ 
She snorted and nodded. ¡§Who else?¡¨ 
¡§Let me tell you something. I was unlovable. I was no kind of husband or father. 
My whole family is dead now. I was a criminal, and the only people who cared 
about me paid me well to get what they needed for illegal acts. I began to justify my 
existence when my black marketing was used to oppose the new evil world ruler. 
But I would not have called him Antichrist, would not even have known the term. I 
was in the same business when the world was merely chaotic, not so evil. My god 
was cash, and I knew how to get it. 
¡§When Mac and Rayford needed my services, I took some comfort in the fact that 
they seemed to be good people. I was no longer just helping criminals. I watched 
them, listened to them. They were outlaws in the eyes of the Global Community, 
but to me that was a badge of honor. 
¡§When all the predictions Mac and Rayford had told me began coming true, I could 
not admit to them I was intrigued. More than that, I was scared. If this were all true, 
then I was an outsider. I was not a believer. I began monitoring the Internet 
messages of Dr. Ben-Judah without telling my friends. I was full of pride still. What 
struck me hardest was that Dr. Ben-Judah made it so clear that God was the lover of 
sinners. Oh, I knew I was that. I just could hardly accept that anyone would love 
me. 
¡§I downloaded a Bible to my computer and would switch back and forth between it 
and Dr. Ben-Judah. I was able to see where he was getting his information, but his 
insights! Those had to come from God alone. What I was learning went against 
everything I had ever heard or been taught. My first prayer was so childish that I 
would never have prayed it aloud in front of another living soul. 
¡§I told God I knew I was a sinner and that I wanted to believe that he loved me and 
would forgive me. I told him that the Western religion¡Xfor that is what it sounded 
like to me¡Xwas so foreign to me that I did not know if I could ever understand it. 
But I said to the Lord, 'If you are really the true and living God, please make it plain 
to me.' I told him I was sorry for my whole life and that he was my only hope. That 
was all. I felt nothing, maybe a little foolish. But I slept that night as I had not slept 
in years. 
¡§Oh, do not misunderstand me. I was not sure I had gotten through to God. I was 
not sure that he was, in fact, who Dr. Ben-Judah and the others believed him to be. 
But I knew I had done all I could. I had been honest with myself and honest with 
him, and if he was who I hoped he was, he would have heard me. That was the best 
I could expect.¡¨ 

Albie sat back and inhaled deeply. 
¡§That's it?¡¨ Hattie said. ¡§That's all?¡¨ 
He smiled. ¡§I thought I would pause and see if I had bored you to sleep yet.¡¨ 
¡§You two are the ones who were up all night. Tell me what happened.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I awoke the next morning with a feeling of expectancy. I didn't know what to 
make of it. Before I could even eat, I felt a deep hunger and thirsting¡Xthere is no 
other word for it¡Xfor the Bible. I believed with my whole being that it was the 
Word of God, and I had to read it. I pulled it up on my computer and read and read 
and read and read. I cannot tell you how it filled me. I understood it! I wanted more 
of it! I could not get enough. Only after midday, when I was weak from hunger, did 
I realize I had not eaten yet. 
¡§I thanked God over and over for his Word, for his truth, for answering my prayer 
and revealing himself to me. Occasionally I would break from my Bible reading and 
check to see if Dr. Ben-Judah had posted anything new. He had not, but I followed 
some of his links to a site that walked the reader through what the rabbi calls the 
sinner's prayer. I prayed it, but I realized that it was what I had already done. I was a 
believer, a child of God, a forgiven, loved sinner.¡¨ 
Hattie appeared unable to speak, but Rayford had seen her this way before. Many 
had told her their stories of coming to faith. She knew the truth and the way. She 
simply had never accepted the life. 
¡§There is a reason I wanted to tell you that story,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§Not just because I 
want to persuade you, which I do. Those among us who have found the truth long 
for everyone else to have it. But it was because of what you said about yourself. 
You said Dr. Ben-Judah was one who loved the unlovable. He does, of course. This 
is a Christ-like quality, a Jesus characteristic. But then you referred to yourself as 
unlovable, and I identified with you. 
¡§But more than that, Ms. Durham, if I may use a phrase of Dr. Ben-Judah's. Often 
he will say that this or that truth 'gives the lie' to certain false claims. Have you 
heard him say that, and do you know what it means?¡¨ She nodded. ¡§Well, it applies 
to you, dear woman. I have just met you, and yet God has given me a love for you. 
Rayford and his family and friends speak often of you and their love for you. That 
gives the lie to your claim that you are unlovable.¡¨ 
¡§They shouldn't love me,¡¨ she said, just above a whisper. 
¡§Of course they shouldn't. You know yourself. You know your selfishness, your sin. 
God should not love us either, and yet he does. And it is only because of him that 
we can love each other. There is no human explanation for it.¡¨ 
Rayford sat praying silently, desperately, for Hattie. Was it possible she was one 
who had for so long rejected Christ that God had turned her over to her own 
stubbornness? Was she unable to see the truth, to change her mind? If that were 
true, why did God plague Rayford and his friends with such a concern for her? 

Suddenly she rose and stepped to Rayford. She bent and kissed the top of his head. 
She turned and did the same to Albie, cupping his face in her hands. ¡§Don't worry 
about me tonight,¡¨ she said. ¡§I'll be here in the morning.¡¨ 
¡§You have no reason not to be,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§You are not really in our custody. In 
fact, you are dead.¡¨ 
¡§Anyway,¡¨ Rayford said, standing and stretching, ¡§where would you bolt to? Where 
would you be safer than where we're taking you?¡¨ 
¡§Thanks for saving my life,¡¨ she said as she turned to head for her room. 
When she shut the door, Rayford said, ¡§I just hope this wasn't for nothing.¡¨ 
They heard her door open and shut and her moving about in her room. 
¡§It wasn't,¡¨ Albie said. 
Rayford was bone weary, but as he disrobed for bed he thought he heard something 
over the sound of Albie's shower. From the adjoining room he thought he heard 
voices. He moved closer to the wall. Not voices, just one. Crying. Sobbing. 
Wailing. Hattie, muffled, apparently with her face buried in a pillow or blanket. 
As he drifted off to sleep half an hour later in the bed across from Albie's, Hattie's 
laments still wafted through the wall. Rayford heard Albie turn and pat his pillow, 
then settle back. ¡§God,¡¨ the little man whispered, ¡§save that girl.¡¨ 
Buck drove straight past the little filling station, pretending to not notice the GC 
stakeout car amidst a small grove of trees across the road. He didn't even slow, so as 
not to attract attention. If he had to guess, he thought just two GC guards were in the 
car. He phoned Zeke. ¡§Any more activity?¡¨ 
¡§Nope. Was that you what just passed? Nice rig.¡¨ 
¡§I'm going to circle way around and see if I can come in from the back with my 
lights off. Might take ten minutes. I'll call you when I'm in position.¡¨ 
Buck drove until he couldn't see even the outline of the station in his rearview 
mirror, assuming the GC could no longer see him either. He cut his lights and took a 
right, slowly feeling his way over rough ground. He was a couple of miles from the 
station, and he wanted to be sure he didn't find a hidden fence or culvert that would 
mess up the Hummer. 
At one point, after taking two more rights and thus heading in the general direction 
of the back of the station, he felt the vehicle dip and hoped he hadn't found a hole 
too deep to pull out of. When the front grille hit something solid, he hit the brakes 
and briefly turned on the headlights. He shut them off again quickly, hoping the GC 
hadn't seen anything in the distance. Buck saw that he needed to back up and swing 
left around a five-foot-high or so mound of dirt and boards. 
He wanted to turn on his brights and be able to see if anything else obstructed his 
path to the back of the station, but he didn't dare. By the time he could make out the 

shape of the place, he slowed to just a few miles an hour and crept along in the 
uneven dirt, bouncing, jostling, and¡Xhe hoped¡Xnot sending up too much dust. It 
was a starry night, and if the GC noticed anything blocking the sky, they were sure 
to come nosing around the back. Buck phoned Zeke. ¡§I hear you,¡¨ Zeke said. 
¡§You hear me? From inside? That can't be good.¡¨ 
¡§That's what I was thinking. You ready for me?¡¨ 
¡§Better come quick. Carrying anything?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, one more bag. Figured I might as well not leave anything I could bring.¡¨ 
¡§Good thinking. Come on.¡¨ 
¡§Gotta open the spigot and turn on the timer.¡¨ 
¡§For how long?¡¨ 
¡§Five minutes.¡¨ 
¡§Anything on the monitor?¡¨ 
¡§They're just sittin'.¡¨ 
¡§Good. Let's go.¡¨ 
Buck knew he could come back the way he came, and though the ride would be 
pretty rugged, he estimated he could do as much as 40 mph. But in case the GC 
could hear the Hummer as well as Zeke could, he jumped out and started loading 
the car to save time. 
The inside light stayed dark as he opened the door to get out, and he left it open. He 
opened the back door on the far side and crept around to start lifting. The first box 
was almost too heavy, and it was all he could do to not cry out under the weight. He 
heard Zeke coming up the stairs. 
Buck lugged the box onto the backseat from the car door farthest from the station's 
back door, feeling every sore fiber from his recent ordeal. When he got back around 
the car to grab the other box, figuring Zeke could load the bag he was carrying and 
the one on the ground at the same time, he nearly ran into the young man, startling 
him. 
Zeke grunted. Buck tried to shush him, but Zeke dropped his bag and lurched back 
inside, slamming the door. Buck heard him lumbering down the stairs. Now they 
were making way too much noise. 
Buck yanked open the station door and called out desperately, as quietly as he 
could, ¡§Zeke, it's just me! C'mon, man! Now!¡¨ 
¡§Oh, man!¡¨ Zeke hollered. ¡§I thought it was them! The timer's goin', the gas is 
spittin'. And they're comin', Buck! I can see 'em on the monitor!¡¨ 
Buck turned and opened the back door nearest the station. He picked up the bag that 
had been waiting and the one Zeke had dropped and hurled them across the 

backseat. He left the door open and jumped behind the wheel, slamming his door 
and putting the Hummer in gear. Zeke barreled out and dove into the backseat, 
knocking one of the bags out the other side, where Buck had left the door open. 
Buck floored the accelerator, but Zeke yelled, ¡§We can't leave that bag! It's got lots 
of stuff we need!¡¨ 
The door had started to close when Buck took off, but when he hit the brakes, it 
swung the other way and creaked against the hinges. ¡§Get it!¡¨ he screamed, and 
Zeke scrambled over the stuff and out onto the ground, his foot dragging a bag out 
too. And here came the GC mobile around the station in front of Buck. 
¡§Go! Go!¡¨ Zeke yelled, forcing himself into the backseat with both heavy bags 
tucked under his arms. 
The door was still open, but Buck had to move. He gunned the engine and slammed 
into the GC car, driving it back against the station as his back door shut. The guards 
had weapons out and appeared to be reaching for door handles. Buck knew he 
couldn't outrace bullets, so he threw the Hummer into Reverse, floored it, and the 
monstrous vehicle climbed the hill of debris near the door. 
Buck stopped at the top as they teetered some twelve feet above their pursuers. He 
shifted into Drive, and when the GC saw the vehicle start to move, they lowered 
their weapons and dove out of the way. The Hummer dropped almost vertically, 
ramming the hood of the little car and blowing both of its front tires. The engine 
gushed water and steam, and Buck could tell he had rendered the GC vehicle 
useless. 
Rather than look for the guards, he merely backed up six feet, whipped the wheel 
right, and sped off into the night. Zeke had somehow gotten the door shut, but 
neither he nor Buck had time to buckle in. As the Hummer lurched across the plains 
at high speed, both men were thrown around like rag dolls, their heads hitting the 
ceiling, their shoulders banging the doors. 
Buck skidded to a stop. 
¡§What?¡¨ Zeke demanded. 
¡§Buckle up!¡¨ 
They both did and off he flew again. Fewer than five minutes later, as Buck found a 
route that would lead them back to Chicago, the sky behind them went from night to 
day in a massive orange ball of flame. A few seconds later the sound and the shock 
rocked the car anew. Buck, high from the adrenaline, knew how close they had 
come to dying. 
Zeke, laughing like a child, kept turning in his seat and looking back at the flaming 
horizon. ¡§Well,¡¨ he said, cackling, ¡§so much for that job!¡¨ 

EIGHT 
Mac and Abdullah sat sullenly in David's hospital room, whispering. ¡§Thirty days?¡¨ 
Mac said over and over. ¡§Hard to believe.¡¨ 
¡§No way of staying around here,¡¨ Abdullah said. ¡§Not that I'll miss it. Well, in some 
ways I will.¡¨ 
¡§I know I will,¡¨ David said, coming to full attention whenever he heard footsteps in 
the corridor. ¡§So much we can do from the inside that we'll never be able to pull off 
from the outside.¡¨ 
Mac let out a sigh that made him sound old and tired. ¡§David, this may sound like 
I'm kissin' up to the boss, but you know I wouldn't kiss up to you if you were the 
potentate. But we both know you can do anything technologically. Get yerself 
healthy and do whatever you got to do to keep tabs on this place from anywhere in 
the world. Isn't that doable?¡¨ 
¡§Theoretically,¡¨ David said. ¡§But it won't be easy.¡¨ 
¡§Somehow you've got this place bugged, sliced, and diced. Why can't you access 
computers here the way you did that buildin' in Chicago where we're all likely 
gonna wind up?¡¨ 
David shrugged. ¡§It's possible. I can't imagine psyching myself up to get it done. 
Not without Annie.¡¨ David caught the glance between Mac and Abdullah. ¡§What?¡¨ 
he said. ¡§You know something you're not telling me?¡¨ 
Mac shook his head. ¡§We're just as worried as you. Makes no sense. No way she 
wouldn't let you know where she was, if she could.¡¨ He paused and a twinkle 
played at his eyes. ¡§Unless she locked herself in that utility room again.¡¨ 
David laughed in spite of himself. Annie was one of the most disciplined, buttoneddown 
employees he'd ever had, but one out-of-character stunt she pulled would 
hang over her head as long as she lived. 
The way Hannah Palemoon knocked at the half-open door told David way more 
than he wanted to know. A sob rose in his throat. Mac stood and David nodded to 
him. ¡§Come in,¡¨ Mac said. 
David tried to ignore the small, corrugated box in Hannah's hands and desperately 
searched her face for some trace of optimism. She approached slowly and set the 
box near David's feet. ¡§I am so sorry,¡¨ she said, and David collapsed inside. 
His pain, his fatigue melted away, overwhelmed by grief and loss too great to bear. 
He groaned and drew his fists up under his chin, turning from his friends, rolling 
onto his side, drawing his knees up, and folding in on himself. 
¡§Lightning?¡¨ The question forced its way past his constricted throat. 
¡§Yes,¡¨ Hannah whispered. ¡§There would have been no pain or suffering.¡¨ 

Grateful for that, David thought. At least not for her, ¡§David,¡¨ Mac said huskily, 
¡§me and Smitty will be right outside¡X¡¨ 
¡§I'd appreciate it if you could stay,¡¨ David managed, and he heard them sit again. 
¡§I have a few of her personal effects,¡¨ Hannah said. David tried to sit up, feeling the 
cursed dizziness. ¡§It's just her purse and phone, jewelry, and shoes.¡¨ 
David finally sat up and put the box between his knees. His breath caught at the 
charred smell. The phone had melted in spots. One shoe had scorched holes in the 
heel and toe. 
¡§I have to see her,¡¨ he said. ¡§I wouldn't recommend it,¡¨ Hannah said. ¡§David, no,¡¨ 
Mac urged. 
¡§I have to! She's not really gone and never will be unless I know for sure. This is 
her stuff, but did you see her, Hannah?¡¨ The nurse nodded. ¡§But you didn't know 
her. Had you ever seen her before?¡¨ 
She shook her head. ¡§Not that I know of. But, David, I don't know how to say this. 
If the woman in the morgue were my best friend, I wouldn't recognize her.¡¨ 
The sobs returned and David pushed the box toward the end of the bed, shaking his 
head, his fingers pressed lightly against his temples, tender and fiery to the touch. 
¡§You know she was my first love?¡¨ 
No one responded. 
¡§I had dated before, but¡X¡¨ he pressed a hand over his lips¡X¡§the love of my life.¡¨ 
Mac stood and asked Abdullah to shut the door. He pulled the hanging curtain 
around the bed so the four of them were cocooned in the dim white light. Mac lay a 
hand gently on David's shoulder. Abdullah reached for a knee. Hannah gripped 
David's sheet-covered foot. 
¡§God,¡¨ Mac whispered, ¡§we're long past asking why things happen. We know we're 
on borrowed time and that we belong to you. We don't understand this. We don't 
like it. And it's hard for us to accept. We thank you that Annie didn't suffer,¡¨ and 
here his voice broke and became barely audible. ¡§We envy her because she's with 
you, but we miss her already, and a part of David that can never be replaced has 
been ripped away. We still trust you, still believe in you, and want to serve you for 
as long as you'll let us. We just ask that you'll come alongside David now, unlike 
you ever have before, and help him to heal, to carry on, to do your work.¡¨ 
Mac could not continue. Abdullah said, ¡§We pray in the name of Jesus.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you,¡¨ David said, and he turned away from them again. ¡§Please don't go 
yet.¡¨ As he lay there, his friends still by the bed inside the curtain, he realized that 
there would be no formal funeral for Annie and that even if there was¡Xbecause she 
was an employee¡Xhe would have to conduct himself as a somber superior, not as a 
grieving lover. When he was forced to separate himself from this place, he didn't 
want it to reflect upon her and call into suspicion everyone she knew or spent time 

with. 
He heard the drape being opened again. Hannah put the box under the head of the 
bed, and Mac and Abdullah returned to their chairs. ¡§You need sleep,¡¨ Hannah said. 
¡§You want me to get you something?¡¨ 
He shook his head. ¡§I'm sorry, Hannah, but I really have to see her. Can you unhook 
me and help me down there?¡¨ 
She looked as if about to refuse him, but he saw the light of an idea come to her 
eyes. ¡§You're sure?¡¨ she said. 
¡§Absolutely.¡¨ 
¡§It won't be easy.¡¨ 
¡§And this is?¡¨ 
¡§I'll get a wheelchair and I'll pull the IV along with us.¡¨ 
Zeke was wearing his trademark getup when Buck presented him to the Tribulation 
Force at the new safe house and introduced him to Tsion. ¡§When the boss gets back, 
we'll make you a full-fledged member,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§But meanwhile, find yourself 
some privacy and appropriate whatever you need to settle in, make yourself at 
home, and become part of the family.¡¨ 
¡§By all means,¡¨ Tsion said, embracing the fleshy young man. In thick-soled, squaretoed, 
black motorcycle boots, black jeans, black T-shirt under black leather vest, 
Zeke was a stark contrast to the sweatered, corduroyed rabbi, standing there in his 
Hush-Puppies. ¡§Welcome and God bless you.¡¨ 
Zeke was awkward and shy, and while he shook hands all around and lightly 
returned hugs, he stared at the ground and mumbled replies. Soon enough, however, 
he was exploring, unpacking, moving a bed, setting up his stuff. An hour later he 
returned to the central meeting place near the elevators. ¡§This place is really 
uptown,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Literally,¡¨ Leah said, clearly bemused by the man who had once changed her 
entire look and given her a new identity. 
Zeke stared at her, and Buck got the impression he didn't know what she meant but 
was afraid to admit it. As if to cover his embarrassment and change the subject, 
Zeke dug in both back pockets and one vest pocket for huge rolls of twenty-Nick 
bills, which he slapped noisily on the table. ¡§I intend to earn my keep,¡¨ he said. ¡§Put 
this here in the pot.¡¨ 
¡§You might want to wait until it's official,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Rayford will be here 
tomorrow night and¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, it's all right. Consider it a donation, even if I get voted out or blackballed or 
whatever.¡¨ 
¡§I don't see that happening,¡¨ Chloe said, burping the sleeping Kenny Bruce on her 

shoulder. 
¡§Oh, man!¡¨ Zeke said quietly, noticing the baby. He approached slowly and reached 
carefully toward Kenny's back. ¡§Can I?¡¨ 
¡§You may,¡¨ Chloe said. ¡§Your hands clean?¡¨ 
Zeke stopped and turned his hands before his eyes. ¡§They have to be for my kinda 
work. Can't smudge the new IDs, you know. They look dirty, 'cause I work on 
engines and stuff, but they're just stained.¡¨ 
He bent at the knees before Chloe and gently put his meaty hand on Kenny's back. 
His fingers nearly stretched from shoulder to tiny shoulder. Zeke lightly touched the 
boy's feathery hair. 
¡§Sit and you can hold him,¡¨ Chloe said, as the others watched. Buck was especially 
amused by Chaim, whose eyes filled. 
¡§Want a turn?¡¨ Buck whispered. 
¡§It's been so long,¡¨ Chaim whispered, trying to make himself understood. ¡§It would 
be a privilege.¡¨ 
Somehow Kenny slept through everyone's turn, even Tsion's. He was last and 
quickly passed Kenny back to Chloe, as he was overcome. ¡§My children were 
teenagers when they . . . when they . . . but the memories ...¡¨ 
¡§We need to identify a body,¡¨ Hannah Palemoon said, pushing David's wheelchair 
and pulling his IV to the desk just inside the morgue. 
¡§Sign in,¡¨ a bored older woman said. 
¡§Forget it,¡¨ Hannah said. ¡§The system is behind by several days. Nobody'11 ever 
check anyway.¡¨ 
The woman made a face. ¡§Less work for me,¡¨ she said. ¡§I'm just filling in.¡¨ 
David's heart raced as Hannah pushed him past rows and rows of bodies as far as 
the eye could see¡Xon gurneys, in lateral refrigerators, and sheet-wrapped head to 
toe, shoulder to shoulder on the floor. ¡§She's not one of these, is she?¡¨ 
¡§Next room, around the corner.¡¨ 
Hannah steered him to the foot end of a covered body on a bed. He took a deep, 
quavery breath. Hannah lifted the sheet from one foot and peered at the toe tag to 
make sure she had the right corpse. ¡§You're sure you want to do this?¡¨ 
He nodded, though now not so sure. 
She showed him the tag thin-wired to the big toe. It bore Annie's name and rank and 
serial number all right, plus date of birth and date of death. The foot was swollen 
and discolored, but no doubt hers. David reached to envelop it with both hands and 
was struck by the cold stiffness. 
It was the other foot whose shoe had showed lightning damage. David began 

pulling the sheet from it, ignoring Hannah when she cleared her throat and said, 
¡§Uh, David ...¡¨ 
He recoiled at the damage. The heel was split wide and the big toe mangled. He 
covered her feet and dropped his head. ¡§You're sure she never felt that?¡¨ 
¡§Positive.¡¨ 
¡§Fortunato was given the power to call down fire from heaven on those who didn't 
worship the image.¡¨ 
¡§I know.¡¨ 
¡§I could have easily been struck.¡¨ 
¡§Me too.¡¨ 
¡§Why her?¡¨ 
Hannah did not answer. David tried to wheel himself between beds to the other end 
of the body. His IV stretched. ¡§Let me,¡¨ Hannah said, and she pushed him slowly. 
When he reached for the sheet, Hannah reached over his shoulder and put a hand on 
his forearm. ¡§You may want to look only at her face,¡¨ she said. ¡§There was severe 
cranial trauma.¡¨ He hesitated. 
¡§And David? For some reason no one closed her eyes. I tried, but with time and 
rigor mortis . . . well, a mortician will have to do that.¡¨ 
He nodded, panting. His head throbbed, and when he was able to control his 
breathing again, David lifted the sheet and brought it down to her neck, careful not 
to look. With another deep breath, his eyes traveled to hers. For an instant it didn't 
look like Annie. Her eyes were fixed on something a million miles away, her face 
bloated and purple. Burns on her ears and neck evidenced where her necklace and 
earrings had been. He sat staring at her for so long that Hannah finally said, ¡§OK?¡¨ 
David shook his head. ¡§I want to stand.¡¨ 
¡§You shouldn't.¡¨ 
¡§Help me.¡¨ 
She pushed the IV stand around the chair so it was next to him. ¡§Use that to brace 
yourself. If the room starts to spin, sit again.¡¨ 
¡§Starts?¡¨ 
She locked the wheels and put a hand on his back, guiding as he rose. He pushed 
with his left hand on the arm of the chair and pulled with his right on the stand. 
Finally, up and wobbly, Hannah's hand still on his back, David cupped Annie's 
cheek with his free hand. Despite the cool rigidity, he imagined she could feel his 
caress. In spite of himself, he leaned over her until he could see past where a tuft of 
hair had been pushed up in front. Behind that was a silver dollar-sized hole that 
exposed her brain. 
David shook his head and carefully sat again. He didn't want to think what a 

lightning bolt through her body would have done to vital organs. He now believed 
Hannah that Annie never would have known what hit her. 
Hannah pulled David's chair and left him at the foot of the bed. He sat with his head 
in his hands, unable to produce more tears. He heard Hannah rearranging the sheet 
and carefully re-covering Annie, almost as if she were still alive, and it struck him 
as sweet and thoughtful. 
As she wheeled him out, he whispered his thanks. 
¡§I wish I had known her,¡¨ Hannah said. 
Rayford had briefed Buck and Chloe and Tsion the night before, so when a phone 
woke him at dawn in Montana, he assumed it was one of them. As he reached to 
answer, however, it was not his cell but the room phone. He had not given out that 
number, so who would be calling? The desk? Was someone onto them? Should he 
identify himself as Rayford Steele or Marvin Berry? Neither, he decided. ¡§Hello?¡¨ 
¡§Ray,¡¨ Hattie said, ¡§it's me. I'm awake, I'm up, I'm starved, and I want to get going. 
You?¡¨ 
He groaned and glanced at the other bed. Albie was sound asleep. ¡§You're a little 
too chipper for me,¡¨ he said. ¡§I'm asleep, I'm in bed, I'm not hungry, and there's no 
sense leaving so early that we get to Kankakee before dark. We can't go to the safe 
house until after that anyway.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Rayford! C'mon! I'm bored. And I'm dead, remember? I need a new identity, 
but I'm as free as I've been in years, thanks to you! How 'bout some breakfast?¡¨ 
¡§We can't be too obvious or public.¡¨ 
¡§Are you going to go back to sleep, really?¡¨ 
¡§Back? I never woke up.¡¨ 
¡§Seriously.¡¨ 
¡§No, I probably won't. Someone in the next room is up banging around anyway.¡¨ 
She knocked on the wall. ¡§And I'll keep banging until I get company for breakfast.¡¨ 
¡§All right, dead girl. Give me twenty minutes.¡¨ 
¡§I'll be outside your door in fifteen.¡¨ 
¡§Then you'll be waiting five.¡¨ 
Rayford was glad his showering and dressing hadn't wakened Albie. He peeked out 
the window and saw nothing and no one. Out the peephole in the door he saw Hattie 
stretching in the sun, just beyond the shadow caused by the second-floor walkway. 
He peeked through the curtain. The place was otherwise deserted. 
Rayford stepped out, and Hattie nearly lunged at him. ¡§Let me see, let me see!¡¨ she 
said, staring at him. ¡§I can see yours!¡¨ she said. ¡§That means you can see mine! Can 
you?¡¨ 

His eyes were still adjusting to the sun, but as she pulled him out of the shadow by 
the door, it hit him. His knees buckled and he almost fell. ¡§Oh, Hattie!¡¨ he said, 
reaching for her. She leaped into his arms and squeezed him around the neck so 
hard he finally had to push her away so he could breathe. 
¡§Does mine look like yours?¡¨ she said. 
He laughed. ¡§How would I know? We can't see our own. But yours looks like every 
other one I've seen. This is worth waking Albie for.¡¨ 
¡§Is he decent?¡¨ 
¡§Sure. Why?¡¨ 
¡§Let me.¡¨ 
Rayford unlocked the door and Hattie burst in. ¡§Albie, wake up, sleepyhead!¡¨ 
He didn't stir. 
She sat on the bed next to him and bounced. He groaned. 
¡§C'mon, Albie! The day is young!¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ he said, sitting up. ¡§What's wrong?¡¨ 
¡§Nothing will ever be wrong again!¡¨ she said, taking his face in her hands and 
pointing his bleary eyes toward her. ¡§I'm just showing off my mark!¡¨ 
NINE 
Buck awoke at dawn and made the rounds, checking on everyone. He smiled at 
Zeke's domain and was grateful it was private. Zeke had worked until after midnight 
arranging his area, getting his computer and other equipment set up. Zeke snored 
loudly, but when Buck peeked in, he found Zeke on the floor next to his bed. Each 
to his own. 
Lean's door was shut and locked. She had been up late on a call from Ming Toy, 
who had returned to Buffer frantic about her parents' staying in New Babylon until 
her brother could find a position with the GC. 
Chloe had been on her computer until after Kenny was in bed, coordinating the 
international co-op. She urged the tens of thousands of members to watch for 
Tsion's next missive, wherein he planned to discuss the importance of their 
readiness when the buying/selling edict would go into effect. He would also be 
asking volunteer pilots and drivers to bring small planes and vehicles into Israel for 
a secret mission. 
The only other two Trib Force members were awake and working. Chaim was 
hunched over a stack of books, several of them open, assigned by Tsion. He looked 
up with twinkling eyes when Buck poked his head in. Buck seemed to understand 

his constricted speech better than the others. 
¡§Miss Rose, the redhead,¡¨ Chaim said. ¡§Leah.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, she is a trained nurse, you know.¡¨ Buck nodded. 
¡§She tells me she can remove the wires when I am ready. Well, I am more than 
ready. A man my age cannot lose this much weight this fast. And I want to be able 
to speak clearly!¡¨ 
¡§How is everything else?¡¨ 
¡§On my body, you mean? I am an old man. I've survived a plane crash. I should 
complain? Cameron, this building is a gift from God! What a luxury! If we have to 
live in exile, this is where to live. And what young Tsion has given me to read, 
well... I call him young because he was once my student, but you knew that. There 
are times, Cameron, when the Scriptures are like an ugly mirror to me, showing me 
again and again my bankrupt soul. But then I rejoice at the redemption, my 
redemption! The story of God, the history of his people, it is all coming alive to me 
before my eyes.¡¨ 
¡§Did you remember to eat?¡¨ 
¡§I don't eat. I drink. Agh! But yes, thank you for asking. I am now drinking in the 
truth of God.¡¨ 
¡§Carry on.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I will! Tsion was looking for you, by the way. Did he find you?¡¨ 
¡§No. I'm on my way to him now.¡¨ 
Buck moved up a floor and found Dr. Ben-Judah with his fingers flying over the 
computer keyboard. He didn't want to disturb him, but the rabbi must have heard 
him. Without looking up or slowing, he said, ¡§Cameron, is that you? So much to do. 
I shall be busy all the day, I fear. Dark as the days are, my joy is complete. 
Prophecy comes alive by the minute. Did you see what Master Zeke did for me? A 
precious lad!¡¨ 
Buck looked again. Tsion had not only a main computer but also two laptops 
networked to it on each side. ¡§No more switching back and forth between 
programs,¡¨ Tsion sang out. ¡§Bibles on one, commentaries on the other. And I am 
writing to my people in the middle!¡¨ 
¡§Glad to get back to it?¡¨ 
¡§You cannot imagine.¡¨ 
¡§Don't let me slow you.¡¨ 
¡§No, no! Come in, Cameron. I need you.¡¨ He finally stopped and hit the Print 
command. Pages began piling in the printer output tray. Tsion swiveled in his chair. 
¡§Sit, please! You must be my first reader today.¡¨ 
¡§I'd be honored, but¡X¡¨ 

¡§First, tell me. What news from our brothers and sisters in the field?¡¨ 
¡§We know little. We haven't heard from David Hassid, except secondhand through 
Rayford, since the Carpathia resurrection.¡¨ 
¡§And what did you hear then?¡¨ 
¡§Only that Ray and Albie had trouble raising him. They needed him to pave the way 
for a scheme they were pulling, trying to get Hattie Durham back from the GC. At 
the last minute he must have gotten their messages, because the stuff came through 
and the mission was accomplished.¡¨ 
Tsion nodded, pursing his lips. ¡§Praise the Lord,¡¨ he said quietly. ¡§She is coming 
back to us then?¡¨ 
¡§Tonight. We expect Ray and Albie and Hattie after dark.¡¨ 
¡§I will pray for their safety. And we must continue to pray for her, of course. God 
has given me such a weight of care for that woman.¡¨ 
Buck shook his head. ¡§Me too, Tsion. But if ever there seemed a lost cause ...¡¨ 
¡§Lost cause? Cameron, Cameron! You and I were lost causes! All of us were. Who 
was a less likely candidate than Chaim? We pleaded and pleaded with him, but who 
would have believed he would eventually come into the kingdom? Certainly not I. 
Don't give up on Miss Durham.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I haven't.¡¨ 
¡§With God, all things are possible. Have you taken a close look at this young man 
you brought home last night?¡¨ 
¡§Zeke? Oh, yeah.¡¨ 
¡§Clearly this was not a churchgoing boy. He is so delightful, so bright! Shy, 
bashful, uneducated. Almost illiterate. But what a sweet, gentle spirit! What a 
servant's heart! And, oh, what a mind! It would take him the next three and a half 
years to read one of the many books Chaim will finish by tomorrow, and yet he has 
proclivities for this technical stuff that I could not learn in a lifetime.¡¨ 
Buck smacked his palms on his thighs and began to rise, ¡§Don't let me keep you.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, you're not! My mouth is keeping me from it. If you are not too busy today, I 
could use your help.¡¨ 
Buck sat back down, and Tsion handed him a sheaf of papers from the printer. ¡§I 
have many pages to go, but I need a first impression. I will not transmit these until I 
know they are right.¡¨ 
¡§They are always right, Tsion. But I'd love to get the first look at them.¡¨ 
¡§Then begin! I will try to stay ahead of you. And if I start talking again, feel free to 
become parental with me.¡¨ 
That'll be the day, Buck thought. He tapped the papers even and settled back to 

read. Every so often Tsion printed out the next several pages, and Buck idly pulled 
them from the printer as he read, sitting, standing, pacing. All the while he thanked 
God for the gift of Tsion Ben-Judah and his incredible mind. 
To: The beloved tribulation saints scattered to the four corners of the earth, 
believers in the one true Jehovah God and his matchless Son, Jesus the Christ, our 
Savior and Lord 
From: Your servant, Tsion Ben-Judah, blessed by the Lord with the responsibility 
and unspeakable privilege of teaching you, under the authority of his Holy Spirit, 
from the Bible, the very Word of God 
Re: The dawn of the Great Tribulation My dear brothers and sisters in Christ, As is 
so often true when I sit to write to you, I come in both joy and sorrow, with delight 
but also soberness of spirit. Forgive me for the delay since last I communicated with 
you, and thank you each and every one for the expressions of concern for my 
welfare. My comrades and I are safe and sound and praising the Lord for a new base 
of operations. And I always want to remember to also thank God for the miracle of 
technology that allows me to write to you all over the world. 
Though I have met few of you personally and look forward to that one day, either in 
the millennial kingdom or in heaven, I feel deeply that family bonds have been 
created by our regularly sharing the deep riches of Scripture through this medium. 
Thank you for your continued prayers that I will remain faithful and true to my 
calling and healthy enough to continue for as long as the Father himself gives me 
breath. 
I ask that all of you who have volunteered to translate these words into languages 
not supported by the built-in conversion programs begin to do that immediately. As 
I have been unable to write to you for several days, I anticipate that this will be a 
longer than usual communique. Also, as always, in those areas where computers or 
power sources are scarce and this message is reproduced as hard copy, I ask that 
those responsible feel free to do so free of charge with no credit necessary, but that 
every word be printed as it appears here. 
Glory to God for news that we have long since passed the one-billion mark in 
readership. We know that there are many more brothers and sisters in the faith who 
are without computers or the ability to read these words. And while the current 
world system would, and does, deny these figures, we believe them to be true. 
Hundreds of thousands join us every day, and we pray you will tell more and more 
about our family. 
We have been through so much together. I say this without boasting but with glory 
to God Almighty: As I have endeavored to rightly divide the Word of Truth to you, 
God has proven himself the author over and over. For centuries scholars have 
puzzled over the mysterious prophetic passages in the Bible, and at one time I was 
one of those puzzled ones. The language seemed obscure, the message deep and 
elusive, the meanings apparently figurative and symbolic. Yet when I began an 

incisive and thorough examination of these passages with an open mind and heart, it 
was as if God revealed something to me that freed my intellect. 
I had discovered, strictly from an academic approach, that nearly 30 percent of the 
Bible (Old and New Testaments together) consisted of prophetic passages. I could 
not understand why God would include these if he intended them to be other than 
understandable to his children. 
While the messianic prophecies were fairly straightforward and, indeed, led me to 
believe in Jesus as their unique fulfillment, I prayed earnestly that God would reveal 
to me the key to the rest of the predictive passages. This he did in a most 
understated way. He simply impressed upon me to take the words as literally as I 
took any others from the Bible, unless the context and the wording itself indicated 
otherwise. 
In other words, I had always taken at its word a passage such as, ¡§Love your 
neighbor as yourself,¡¨ or ¡§Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.¡¨ 
Why then, could I not take just as straightforwardly a verse which said that John the 
Revelator saw a pale horse? Yes, I understood that the horse stood for something. 
And yet, the Bible said that John saw it. I took that literally, along with all the other 
prophetic statements (unless they used phrases such as ¡§like unto¡¨ or others that 
made it clear they were symbolic). 
My dear friends, the Scriptures opened to me in a way I never dreamed possible. 
That is how I knew the great Seal Judgments and Trumpet Judgments were coming, 
how I was able to interpret what form they might take, and even in what sequence 
they would occur. 
That is how I know that the Bowl Judgments are yet to come, and that they will be 
exponentially worse than all those that came before. That is how I knew that these 
plagues and trials were more than just judgments on an unholy and unbelieving 
world. That is how I knew that this whole period of history is also one more 
evidence of the long-suffering, loving-kindness, and mercy of God himself. 
Believers, we have turned a corner. Skeptics¡Xand I know many of you drop in here 
now and then to see what we zealots are up to¡Xwe have passed the point of 
gentility. Up to now, while I have been forthright about the Scriptures, I have been 
somewhat circumspect about the current rulers of this world. 
No more. As every prophecy in the Bible has so far come to pass, as the leader of 
this world has preached peace while wielding a sword, as he died by the sword and 
was resurrected as the Scriptures foretold, and as his right-hand man has been 
imbued with similar evil power, there can be no more doubt: 
Nicolae Carpathia, the so-called Excellency and Supreme Potentate of the Global 
Community, is both anti-Christian and Antichrist himself. And the Bible says the 
resurrected Antichrist is literally indwelt by Satan himself. Leon Fortunato, who had 
an image of Antichrist erected and now forces one and all to worship it or face their 
own peril, is Antichrist's false prophet. As the Bible predicted, he has power to give 

utterance to the image and to call down fire from heaven to destroy those who 
refuse to worship it. 
What's next? Consider this clear prophetic passage in Revelation 13:11-18: ¡§Then I 
saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb and 
spoke like a dragon. And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his 
presence, and causes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast, 
whose deadly wound was healed. He performs great signs, so that he even makes 
fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men. And he deceives those 
who dwell on the earth by those signs which he was granted to do in the sight of the 
beast, telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast who was 
wounded by the sword and lived. He was granted power to give breath to the image 
of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as many as 
would not worship the image of the beast to be killed. He causes all, both small and 
great, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a mark on their right hand or on their 
foreheads, and that no one may buy or sell except one who has the mark or the name 
of the beast, or the number of his name. 
¡§Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, 
for it is the number of a man: His number is 666.¡¨ 
It won't be long before everyone will be forced to bow the knee to Carpathia or his 
image, to bear his name or number on their forehead or right hand, or face the 
consequences. 
Those consequences? Those of us without what the Bible calls the mark of the beast 
will not be allowed to legally buy or sell. If we publicly refuse to accept the mark of 
the beast, we will be beheaded. While it is the greatest desire of my life to live to 
see the Glorious Appearing of my Lord and Savior Jesus the Christ at the end of the 
Great Tribulation (a few days short of three and a half years from now), what 
greater cause could there ever be for which to give one's life? 
Many, millions of us, will be required to do just that. While it conjures in us age-old 
self-preservation instincts and we worry that at that hour we will be found lacking 
courage, loyalty, and faithfulness, let me reassure you. The God who calls you to 
the ultimate sacrifice will also give you the power to endure it. No one can receive 
the mark of the beast by accident. It is a once-and-for-all decision that will forever 
condemn you to eternity without God. 
While many will be called to live in secret, to support one another through private 
markets, some will find themselves caught, singled out, dragged into a public 
beheading, to which the only antidote is a rejection of Christ and a taking of the 
mark of the beast.If you are already a believer, you will not be able to turn your 
back on Christ, praise God. If you are undecided and don't want to follow the 
crowd, what will you do when faced with the mark or the loss of your head? I plead 
with you today to believe, to receive Christ, to envelop yourself with protection 
from on high. 

We are entering into the bloodiest season in the history of the world. Those who 
take the mark of the beast will suffer affliction at the hand of God. Those who 
refuse it will be martyred for his blessed cause. Never has the choice been so stark, 
so plain. 
God himself gave name to this three-and-a-half-year period. Matthew 24:21-22 
records Jesus saying, ¡§For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been 
since the beginning of the world until this time, no, nor ever shall be. And unless 
those days were shortened, no flesh would be saved; but for the elect's [that's you 
and me, believer] sake those days will be shortened.¡¨ 
In all God's dealings with mankind, this is the shortest period on record, and yet 
more Scripture is devoted to it than any other period except the life of Christ. While 
the Hebrew prophets referred to this as a time of ¡§vengeance of our God¡¨ for the 
slaughter of the prophets and saints over the centuries, it is also a time of mercy. 
God goes to extreme measures to compress the decision-making time for men and 
women before the coming of Christ to set up his earthly kingdom. 
Despite that this is clearly the most awful time in history, I still say it is also a 
merciful act of God to give as many souls as possible an opportunity to put their 
faith in Christ. Oh, people, we are the army of God with a massive job to do in a 
short time. May we do it with willingness and eagerness, and the courage that 
comes only from him. There are countless lost souls in need of saving, and we have 
the truth. 
It may be hard to recognize God's mercy when his wrath is also intensifying. Woe 
to those who believe the lie that God is only ¡§love.¡¨ Yes, he is love. And his gift of 
Jesus as the sacrifice for our sin is the greatest evidence of this. But the Bible also 
says God is ¡§holy, holy, holy.¡¨ He is righteous and a God of justice, and it is not in 
his nature to allow sin to go unpunished or unpaid for. 
We are engaged in a great worldwide battle with Satan himself for the souls of men 
and women. Do not think that I lightly advance to the front lines with this truth, not 
understanding the power of the evil one. But I have placed my faith and trust in the 
God who sits high above the heavens, in the God who is above all other gods, and 
among whom there is none like him. 
Scripture is clear that you can test both prophet and prophecy. I make no claim of 
being a prophet, but I believe the prophecies. If they are not true and don't come to 
pass, then I am a liar and the Bible is bogus, and we are all utterly without hope. But 
if the Bible is true, next on the agenda is the ceremonial desecration of the temple in 
Jerusalem by Antichrist himself. This is a prediction made by Daniel, Jesus, Paul, 
and John. 
My brothers and sisters of Jewish blood, which I proudly share, will cringe to know 
that this desecration shall include the sacrificing of a pig on the sacred altar. It also 
includes blasphemy against God, profanity, derogatory statements about God and 
Messiah, and a denial of his resurrection. 

If you are Jewish and have not yet been persuaded that Jesus the Christ of Nazareth 
is Messiah and you have been deceived by the lies of Nicolae Carpathia, perhaps 
your mind will be changed when he breaks his covenant with Israel and withdraws 
his guarantee of her safety. But he shows no favoritism. Besides reviling the Jews, 
he will slaughter believers in Jesus. If this does not happen, label me a heretic or 
mad and look elsewhere than the Holy Scriptures for hope. Thank you for your 
patience and for the blessed privilege of communicating with you again. Let me 
leave you on a note of hope. My next message will concern the difference between 
the Book of Life and the Lamb's Book of Life, and what those mean to you and me. 
Until then, you may rest assured that if you are a believer and have placed your 
hope and trust in the work of Jesus Christ alone for the forgiveness of sins and for 
life everlasting, your name is in the Lamb's Book of Life. And it can never be 
erased. Until we meet again, I bless you in the name of Jesus. May he bless you and 
keep you and make his face to shine upon you, and give you peace. 
When Buck looked up from reading, his eyes moist, he was surprised to see that 
Tsion had slipped out without his knowledge. Despite the length of the rabbi's 
message, Buck knew that if the rest of the constituency was as thirsty for the truth 
as he was, they would welcome it and hang on every word. And a difference 
between the Book of Life and the Lamb's Book of Life? He had never heard of such 
a thing and couldn't wait to learn more. 
He stood and stretched, the pages still in his hand. As he left he saw a note on the 
door. ¡§Cameron, I welcome any suggestions. If you think it acceptable, feel free to 
hit Enter to post it on the Web site.¡¨ 
It may have seemed a small thing, a utilitarian task. But to Buck it was a 
monumental honor. He hurried to Tsion's computer, brushed the cordless mouse to 
clear the screen saver, and with great relish hit the key that broadcast Tsion's words 
to a global audience. 
Rayford offered to give Albie a break and pilot the fighter back to Palwaukee. His 
friend had done the bulk of the ¡§flying and the lying,¡¨ as they called it, and both 
could be grueling. Deceiving the enemy was tightrope work, and until David Hassid 
was able to get Rayford a phony rank, ID, and uniform, Albie was always in the hot 
seat. 
It worked out best this way, though, because Hattie would have worn Rayford out 
during the flight, had he been free to listen. He heard most of it anyway, of course, 
but he was glad for the busyness of flying so he didn't have to maintain eye contact 
and match her energy. 
He was thrilled beyond words for her and couldn't wait to see the faces of the rest of 
the Tribulation Force later that evening. More than that, he was happy for the whole 
Force. More than once, he, and he knew the others too, had given up hope for 
Hattie. 
Albie was too new a believer to counsel her much, but she asked him to tell her 

again and again about the hunger for the Bible God had seemed to plant in his heart. 
¡§I don't know if that's what I have yet,¡¨ she said, ¡§but I'm sure curious. Do you have 
a Bible I can read?¡¨ 
Rayford's was packed away somewhere at the safe house, and Albie said he did not 
have one. But then he remembered. ¡§I have one on my hard drive!¡¨ 
¡§Oh, good,¡¨ she said, until he fired it up and she discovered it was in his native 
language. ¡§Now my understanding that would be a miracle!¡¨ He tried his decoding 
conversion software on it, but it didn't support his language. 
¡§Something to look forward to this evening,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Among other things. You know, Albie, I owe a lot of those people some serious 
apologies.¡¨ 
¡§Yes?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, yes. I'll hardly know where to begin. If you only knew.¡¨ 
¡§There was a time,¡¨ he said, ¡§when I would have been most curious. Captain Steele 
can attest that there is something in the black marketer akin to a pathological gossip. 
We are quiet and do not say much, but oh, how we love to listen. But do you know, 
I would rather not hear of the offenses you may have committed against those who 
love you so much.¡¨ 
¡§I don't care to talk about them either.¡¨ 
¡§You can hope that your new brothers and sisters won't either. A wise man once 
counseled me that apologies must be specific, but now that I am a believer, I am not 
sure I agree. If your friends know that you are sorry, deeply remorseful, and that 
you mean it when you apologize, I expect they will forgive you.¡¨ 
¡§Without making me rehash everything so they'll know I know what I did?¡¨ 
Albie cocked his head and appeared to be thinking. ¡§That doesn't sound like a bornagain 
response, as Dr. Ben-Judah would call it. Does it?¡¨ 
She shook her head. ¡§That would be like rubbing it in.¡¨ 
Rayford's phone rang. The area code was Colorado. ¡§Yeah,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Ah, Mr. Berry?¡¨ It was the unmistakable voice of Steve Plank. 
¡§That's me.¡¨ 
¡§Are you maintaining my anonymity with the dear departed?¡¨ 
¡§I am indeed, Mr. Stephens. I'm assuming we're on a secure connection?¡¨ 
¡§Absolutely.¡¨ 
¡§Then I am happy to tell you that she has come back from the dead, both physically 
and spiritually.¡¨ 
Silence. 
¡§Did you catch that, Pinkerton?¡¨ 

¡§I'm speechless, and that's new for me. Are you serious?¡¨ 
¡§Roger.¡¨ 
¡§Wow! Better still keep my confidence, but pass along my best and a big welcome 
to the family.¡¨ 
¡§Will do.¡¨ 
¡§I have good news for you too. I reported to the brass the unfortunate incident in the 
detention area, and they said to just dispose of the body and send in the paperwork. I 
asked 'em where I was supposed to do that¡Xwith the body, I mean¡Xand they said 
they'd just as soon not know. I guess there's more'n enough corpses to deal with 
everywhere so we luck out on this one.¡¨ 
¡§You know the irony, don't you, Pink?¡¨ 
¡§Tell me.¡¨ 
¡§The GC pretended she was dead once too.¡¨ 
¡§I remember that. She must be the woman with nine lives.¡¨ 
¡§Well, three anyway. And now she has all she needs.¡¨ 
¡§Amen and roger that. Keep in touch.¡¨ 
When they arrived within airspace of Kankakee, Albie got on the radio to talk to the 
tower. He identified himself as Commander Elbaz and asked permission to load a 
body into his chopper for ¡§proper disposition.¡¨ 
¡§We have no extra personnel to help with that, Commander.¡¨ 
¡§Just as well. We're not totally sure of the cause of death or any potential 
contagions.¡¨ 
¡§It's you and Mr. Berry and the deceased?¡¨ 
¡§Roger, and the paperwork has been filed with International.¡¨ 
¡§Consider yourselves processed. Oh, stand by, Commander. I've been reminded that 
a shipment has arrived for you from New Babylon.¡¨ 
¡§A shipment?¡¨ 
¡§It's stamped Confidential and Top Secret. About half a skid. I'd say two hundred 
pounds.¡¨ 
¡§Can it be delivered to the chopper?¡¨ 
¡§We'll see what we can do. If we've got a free man and a forklift, what say we load 
her for ya?¡¨ 
¡§Obliged.¡¨ 
Half an hour later, as Rayford and Albie carried Hattie to the chopper under a sheet, 
she whispered, ¡§Anyone around?¡¨ 
¡§No, but hush,¡¨ Rayford said. 

¡§I need a new identity. This is really getting old.¡¨ 
¡§Shut up or I drop you,¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§You wouldn't.¡¨ 
He pretended to let his end slip, and she cried out. ¡§You two are gonna get us 
busted,¡¨ Rayford said. 
Once she was loaded, Rayford told her to stay out of sight until they were airborne. 
He got behind the controls again because he knew the way and Albie had not 
performed a landing inside a bombed-out skyscraper before. 
Before Rayford lifted off, Albie turned and reached over the hidden Hattie and 
began unfastening the skid and boxes until he found a gross of black spray paint 
cans. The snapping of plastic fasteners and wrap made Hattie ask, ¡§What in the 
world are you doing?¡¨ 
¡§Just clearing the trapdoor so Rayford can eject you if you don't behave.¡¨ 
A full day had passed in New Babylon, and David felt well enough to leave the 
hospital. Hannah came to change his dressing. ¡§How are we doing?¡¨ she asked, 
peering into his eyes. 
¡§Nurses all use the collective we, don't they?¡¨ 
¡§We're trained in it.¡¨ 
¡§Physically I feel a hundred percent better.¡¨ 
¡§You'll still have to take it easy.¡¨ 
¡§I've got a desk job, Hannah.¡¨ 
¡§You also have a ton of stuff to do fast. Pace yourself.¡¨ 
¡§I don't feel like doing it anyway.¡¨ 
¡§Do it for Annie.¡¨ 
¡§Touche.¡¨ 
With his new bandage in place, she put her hands gently over his ears. ¡§I wasn't 
trying to be mean, David. I mean it. I know your heart is broken. But if you wait for 
that pain to go away before doing what you have to do, it'll be time to get out of 
here.¡¨ He nodded miserably. 
¡§You're going to be OK, David,¡¨ she said. ¡§That sounds trite now, but just knowing 
you a little makes me certain.¡¨ 
He wasn't so sure, but she was trying to help. ¡§I've been thinking,¡¨ she added. Uhoh. 
¡§Glad somebody's up to that.¡¨ 
¡§I knew I wanted to be a nurse when I was a veterinarian's aide in high school.¡¨ 
He raised his eyebrows. ¡§I'm expecting some joke about me as a patient.¡¨ 
¡§No jokes. It's just that one of the things our office offered was the injection of 

biochips into pets so they could always be found and identified.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah?¡¨ 
¡§Isn't that what you said the GC is going to do to everybody?¡¨ 
He nodded. 
¡§And I'm sort of an expert in that, and now you know it.¡¨ 
¡§Guess I'm still too medicated, Hannah. Spell it out for me.¡¨ 
¡§Aren't they going to need to train people in how to do this and send experts here 
and there to supervise it?¡¨ 
He shrugged. ¡§Probably, sure. What? It looks like a plum job, a way to see the 
world? You want a letter of recommendation?¡¨ 
She sighed. ¡§If you weren't hurting, I'd smack you. Give me some credit. You think 
I'd want to teach people how to apply the mark of the beast? Or that I'd want to 
watch while they do it? I'm looking for a way we can all get out of here without 
making it obvious why we left. You want to be among Carpathia's top ten most 
wanted?¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
¡§No, so you get in there with Viv Ivins and offer the services of your pilots and 
even a nurse you know who has some background in this stuff. Get us sent 
somewhere to get the ball rolling, whatever. You're the one with the creativity. I'm 
just shooting wild here.¡¨ 
¡§No, keep going. I'm sorry. I'm listening now.¡¨ 
¡§You get us all on the same plane, maybe a big expensive one, because the bigger 
the lie, the more people want to believe it. Crash it somewhere, like the middle of an 
ocean, where it would be more trouble than it's worth to confirm we're all dead. We 
hook up with the rest of your friends, but we're not constantly looking over our 
shoulders for GC.¡¨ 
¡§I like it.¡¨ 
¡§You're not just saying that?¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't. It's a stroke of genius.¡¨ 
¡§Well, it's a thought.¡¨ 
¡§A great thought. Let me run it past Mac and Abdullah. They're good at finding 
holes in schemes and¡X¡¨ 
¡§I already did. They liked it too.¡¨ 
¡§Anything left for me, or can you keep everybody in the palace healthy and stitched 
up and do my job too?¡¨ 
She bit her lip. ¡§I was just trying to help.¡¨ 
¡§And you did.¡¨ 

¡§But we both know I can't do your job. Nobody can. So I mean it when I say you 
have to channel your grief into productivity and do it for Annie. It's the only way to 
make any sense out of this. Mac tells me the Tribulation Force sees you as second in 
importance only to Dr. Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, come on.¡¨ 
¡§David! Think about it. Look what you've done here. It doesn't have to fizzle when 
we all leave if you can figure a way to keep it going from anywhere.¡¨ 
When Buck's phone rang, he assumed it would be Rayford, telling him he and Albie 
and Hattie were close. But it was Mac McCullum. 
¡§Hey, Mac!¡¨ he said, holding up a hand to quiet the others. Buck had to sit when he 
heard the news. ¡§Oh, no. No. That's awful. . . . Oh, man . . . how's he doing? . . . Tell 
him we're with him, will you?¡¨ Buck's face contorted and he couldn't control his 
tears. ¡§Thanks for letting us know, Mac.¡¨ 
Chloe rushed to him. ¡§What, Buck? What's happened?¡¨ 
TEN 
¡§Excuse me, Rayford,¡¨ Hattie said, a hand on each of his shoulders as he directed 
the chopper over Chicago toward the Strong Building. Albie was dozing. 
Rayford slipped off one headphone so he could hear her, and she let her hands slip 
to the top of his chair. ¡§I'm worried about how I'm going to be received.¡¨ 
¡§Are you joking? I can think of three who will be overjoyed.¡¨ 
¡§I've been terrible to them.¡¨ 
¡§That was before.¡¨ 
¡§But I should apologize. I don't even know where to begin with you. Planting that 
stuff about Amanda. Making you all wonder about her.¡¨ 
¡§But you admitted that, Hattie.¡¨ 
¡§I don't remember apologizing for it. That seems so weak compared to what I did.¡¨ 
¡§I won't say it wasn't an awful time for me,¡¨ he said. ¡§But let's put it behind us.¡¨ 
¡§You can do that?¡¨ 
¡§Not by myself.¡¨ 
¡§Chloe really lost patience with me.¡¨ 
¡§With me too, Hattie. And I deserved it.¡¨ 
¡§She forgave you?¡¨ 
¡§Of course. Love forgives all.¡¨ 

Hattie fell silent, but Rayford felt the pressure of her hands on the back of his chair. 
¡§Love forgives all,¡¨ she repeated, as if mulling it over. 
¡§That's from the Bible, you know. First Corinthians 13.¡¨ 
¡§I didn't know,¡¨ she said. ¡§But I hope to learn fast.¡¨ 
¡§Want another one? I'm doing this from memory, but there's a verse in the New 
Testament¡Xmore than one, I think¡Xthat quotes Jesus. He basically says that if we 
forgive others, God will forgive us, but if we don't forgive others, neither will God 
forgive us.¡¨ 
Hattie laughed. ¡§That puts us over a barrel, doesn't it? Like we don't have a choice.¡¨ 
¡§Pretty much.¡¨ 
¡§You think I should find that verse and memorize it so I can quote it to them when I 
get there? Tell them they'd better forgive me, if they know what's good for them?¡¨ 
Rayford turned and raised an eyebrow at her. 
¡§I'm kidding,¡¨ she said. ¡§But, um, you think they all know that verse?¡¨ 
¡§You can bet Tsion does. Probably in a dozen languages.¡¨ 
She sat quiet awhile. Rayford pointed out the Strong Building in the distance and 
rapped lightly on Albie's knee with his knuckles. ¡§You might want to be awake for 
this, friend.¡¨ 
¡§I'm nervous,¡¨ Hattie said. ¡§I was all psyched up, but now I don't know.¡¨ 
¡§Give them some credit,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§You'll see.¡¨ He hit the button on his phone 
to call Buck and handed it to Hattie. ¡§Tell Buck the next sound he hears will be us.¡¨ 
Buck had told Chloe the news about Annie, then gathered everyone in the safe 
house to tell them. None had met her, of course, but Tsion, Buck, Chloe, and Leah 
had had enough interaction with David that they felt they knew Annie. Chaim and 
Zeke were brought up to speed; then they all prayed for David and Mac and 
Abdullah. Zeke asked if they would mind praying for his father too. 
¡§I don't know 'xactly where they took him, but I know Dad, and he ain't gonna be 
cooperative.¡¨ 
¡§David says they're going to try out the mark on prisoners first,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Dad would die first.¡¨ 
¡§That might be the price.¡¨ 
¡§Ten to one he'd take a couple of 'em with him,¡¨ Zeke said. 
Buck's phone rang, and he was grateful when Chloe reached for it. 
¡§Hattie?¡¨ she said. ¡§Where are you guys? . . . That close? See you in a few then. . . . 
Yeah, we heard Dad and Albie found a, um, friend on the inside. You ought to be 
grateful for all the time and expense and effort that went into¡Xwell, I don't know if 
you realize how risky that was. And investing Dad and Albie's time and an 

aircraft¡XI mean¡Xit's not like you did anything to deserve it. I'm not trying to be 
mean, I'm just saying . . . don't start the waterworks with me, Hattie. We go back too 
far. For all we know the old safe house is ashes now because of¡XYeah, we can talk 
about it when you get here. ... Of course I still care about you, but you may not find 
all of us as soft as my dad. There's a delicate balance here and a lot more people 
than before. Even in a place as huge as this, it's not easy living together, especially 
with people who have a history of putting their needs ahead of everybody el¡XOK, 
all right. We'll see you in a minute.¡¨ 
Hattie clapped the phone shut and slapped it into Rayford's hand. ¡§I take it that 
wasn't Buck,¡¨ he said. 
¡§She hates me!¡¨ Hattie said. ¡§This is a bad idea. You should have left me there, let 
them take me back to Buffer and take my chances. I might not have lasted, but at 
least I'd be in heaven.¡¨ 
¡§Should we have let you kill yourself too? Then where would you be?¡¨ 
¡§Chloe didn't sound like she's going to forgive me. Ah, I don't blame her. I deserve 
it.¡¨ 
Rayford felt Hattie sit back and she muttered something. 
¡§Can't hear you,¡¨ he said, maneuvering toward the building. 
¡§I said she probably only said what I would have if the shoe was on the other foot.¡¨ 
Hannah Palemoon had dressed David's wound differently, applying a tight-fitting 
bandage that adhered to the shaved part of his head and did not touch his hair. It 
aided the stitches in keeping his scalp together for fast healing, she told him, and he 
didn't need the layers of gauze covering his ears and extending under his chin 
anymore. He felt almost normal except for the residual pain¡Xmuch less¡Xand the 
itching he knew he had to ignore. The best he could do was to gently press around 
the edges of the bandage, but as the stitches would not be removed for at least 
another two days, he had to be careful. 
Still, his cap fit again. He stopped by his quarters for a fresh uniform, checked the 
mirror, and realized how incongruous he looked. His youthful, Israeli features and 
dark complexion went well with the tailored, form-fitting garb of the senior GC 
staff. But as he studied his visage, he wondered if any of the Nazis he'd seen in 
history books hated the swastika on their snappy uniforms as much as he hated the 
insignia of the Global Community. How he would love abandoning the whole look. 
And it wouldn't be long. 
He stopped with his hand on the inside door handle. 
Though he was better, he still felt the fatigue of one whose body was trying to heal 
itself. Part of him wanted to stretch out on the bed and not move for twelve hours, to 
simply lie there in his grief and embrace the gnawing emptiness. David found some 
solace in Hannah's insistence that Annie would not have suffered even for a split 
second. But why couldn't the power that obliterated her nervous system and baked 

her vital organs also destroy the longing in him she could now never fulfill? No 
lightning bolt of any magnitude could extinguish a love so pure. 
He bowed his head and prayed for strength. If he had, say, two months, he might 
have allowed himself the luxury of another day or two to take the hardest edge off 
his pain. But even the time he had was not really enough for all he had to do. For 
Annie, he told himself as he headed for his office. And he would remind himself of 
that every few minutes for as long as it took to keep himself going. 
His relegating Annie to a sacred, protected part of his mind was not helped when he 
encountered Viv Ivins in the corridor outside his office. ¡§I need to see you,¡¨ she 
said in her crisp, delicate voice and Romanian accent. ¡§My office or yours?¡¨ 
He was so glad she had not begun with the obligatory ¡§He is risen,¡¨ which he and 
Mac and Abdullah and Hannah had decided they would respond to with ¡§He is risen 
indeed,¡¨ privately knowing they were referring to Christ. Perhaps Vivian eschewed 
the formality because technically she was outside the hierarchy. She did not even 
wear a uniform, though her light blue, dark blue, black, charcoal, and gray suits 
were uniform enough. She wore sensible shoes, and her blue-gray hair was teased 
into a helmet-like ball. 
Giving David the option of meeting with her in his own office was unusual, for 
while Ms. Ivins bore no official title, everyone knew she was akin to the boss's 
daughter, or, in this case, the boss's aunt. She was not a blood relative, as far as 
anyone knew, but Carpathia himself made it plain that she was as close to him as 
anyone in the world. She had been a dear family friend and had, from almost the 
beginning, helped his late parents raise their only child. 
She did not overtly lord it over anyone that she had clout without title. There was 
simply an unspoken knowledge between her and everyone. What she wanted she 
got. What she said went. Her word was as good as Carpathia's, and so she didn't 
have to assert herself. She employed her understood power in the same way 
everyone else accepted it. 
¡§Please,¡¨ David said, ¡§come in.¡¨ He enjoyed the brass of having someone so close 
to Carpathia sitting in his office, not six feet from the computer he used to subvert 
the potentate's efforts. 
His assistant greeted him with a concerned look as he passed. David merely said, 
¡§Good morning,¡¨ but she slowed him with, ¡§Are you all right?¡¨ 
¡§Better, Tiffany, thanks,¡¨ he said. When she noticed his visitor, she lurched to her 
feet. ¡§Ms. Ivins,¡¨ she said. Viv merely nodded. David held the door for her, and 
once she was inside and he shut it, she stood waiting for him to pull out a chair for 
her. He imagined saying, ¡§Is your arm broken?¡¨ But there was almost as much 
feminist power in her expecting his chivalry as there would have been in her not 
doing so. 
¡§I heard you say you were feeling better,¡¨ she said, opening a folder in her lap and 

pulling a pencil from behind her ear. ¡§So I won't belabor that. I trust you're able to 
get past your unfortunate incident with His Excellency?¡¨ 
¡§Throwing up on the leader of the world, you mean?¡¨ he said, eliciting a grimace 
from her. ¡§Except that such news travels fast and I doubt there is an employee in 
New Babylon not aware of it, yes, I try not to dwell on it.¡¨ 
¡§Senior management understands,¡¨ she said. 
He wanted to ask if they understood that barfing on the big boss was actually an 
answer to a desperate prayer to be spared from pretending to worship him. 
Viv made a tiny check mark after her first listed item. David wondered what she 
might have written there as the discussion point. Regurgitation? 
¡§Now then,¡¨ she said, ¡§a few more items. First, your new immediate superior will 
be James Hickman.¡¨ 
¡§My area will report to Intelligence?¡¨ 
¡§No, Jim has been promoted to Supreme Commander to replace Reverend 
Fortunato.¡¨ 
David mused that having had Intelligence in Hickman's previous title was similar to 
Fortunato now having Reverend in his. ¡§Surely this was Leon's, er, Commander 
Fortunato's choice, not the potentate's.¡¨ David detected the hint of a smile, but Viv 
wouldn't take the bait. ¡§So Jim will be relocating to Leon's old office?¡¨ he said. 
¡§Please don't get ahead of me, Mr. Hassid. And I would urge you to use titles or at 
the very least Mister when you refer to personnel at such levels. You shall be 
expected to refer to Mr. Hickman as Supreme Commander and Mr. Fortunato as 
Reverend or Most High Reverend.¡¨ 
Do I get a vote? David wondered. He might rather have vomited on Leon than call 
him Most High anything. He bit his tongue to keep from asking Viv, er, Ms. Ivins, 
whether it had been Hickman's groveling that won him his promotion. Or perhaps 
that performance was in gratitude for a move that had already been put in place. 
¡§And no,¡¨ Viv continued, ¡§the new Supreme Commander will not be moving into 
Reverend Fortunato's old office. Mr. Hickman will be sharing space with His 
Excellency's assistant.¡¨ 
¡§Real-ly,¡¨ David said. ¡§Seems Sandra's kind of cramped as it is.¡¨ 
¡§How shall I put this? Though Mr. Hickman will have the same title Mr. Fortunato 
had, the job may not have quite the same range of influence.¡¨ 
¡§Meaning?¡¨ 
Viv appeared frustrated, as if she were seldom asked to be more precise. ¡§Mr. 
Hassid, it should be obvious to everyone that a leader whose deity has been publicly 
affirmed would not have need for the same level of assistance he may have in the 
past. Mr. Fortunato was, in essence, the chief operating officer to His Excellency's 

chief executive officer. Mr. Hickman's role will be more that of facilitator.¡¨ 
Like sergeant at arms or town crier? David wanted to say. 
¡§And, of course, you are aware of Reverend Fortunato's new duties.¡¨ 
More than you are. But False Prophet may not look right on the business card. 
¡§Refresh me.¡¨ 
¡§He will be the spiritual head of the Global Community, directing homage to the 
object of our worship.¡¨ 
David nodded. To cover any unconscious look that might have given him away, he 
said, ¡§And, what, ah, is to become of Leon's, excuse me, Reverend Fortunato's old 
office?¡¨ 
¡§It will become part of the potentate's new quarters.¡¨ 
¡§Oh! I knew he wanted to expand upward. But out as well?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, it should be magnificent. One of the benefits, so far anyway, of his 
resurrected body is that he is apparently immune to the need for sleep. Busy twentyfour 
hours a day, he needs variety in his work environment.¡¨ 
¡§Uh-huh.¡¨ That's all we need. Satan with no downtime. 
¡§The potentate's new office will be spectacular, Director Hassid. It will encompass 
both his and Mr. Fortunato's old spaces, as well as the conference room, and above 
the ten-foot walls will extend another thirty feet of windows to a clear roof.¡¨ 
¡§Sounds impressive, all right.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure you will have your share of audiences with him,¡¨ she said, ¡§though you 
will more often meet with the new Supreme Commander.¡¨ 
¡§If I were the potentate, I would want an office large enough to allow plenty of 
distance between him and me.¡¨ 
¡§I don't understand.¡¨ 
¡§You know, the throwing up thing.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, yes. I get it. Amusing.¡¨ But she did not appear amused. 
¡§Will Mr. Hickman have a meeting area, or will we have to keep our voices down 
so as not to disturb the potentate's assistant?¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure between the two of you, you'll be able to work something out. For 
instance, meeting here. Oh, my, look at the time. I have several other appointments, 
so you'll forgive me if I plunge ahead.¡¨ 
No, time's up. Get out. ¡§Certainly, Ms. Ivins. I understand.¡¨ 
¡§During your incapacity, we were unable to wait on several important issues. We 
needed to get orders placed for several technical purchases that involve international 
shipping and manufacture.¡¨ 
David had to concentrate to keep from making a face. He knew exactly what she 

was talking about, and he had hoped he could stall such requisitions and frustrate 
the potentate's efforts. 
¡§Technical purchases?¡¨ he said. 
¡§Biochip injectors. And, of course, loyalty enforcement facilitators.¡¨ 
Loyalty enforcement facilitators!? Why not just call them cranium and trunk 
separators? ¡§Guillotines, you mean?¡¨ 
That made her wince. ¡§Director, please. That has such an eighteenth-century sound 
to it, and you can understand why we want to avoid any language that bespeaks 
violence or conjures images of beheading and the like.¡¨ 
And the like? ¡§Begging your pardon, ma'am, but do we not assume that people will 
recognize the guillotines, or loyalty enforcement facilitators, for what they are? 
What else might they be used for, halving cabbages?¡¨ 
¡§I don't find that the least bit amusing.¡¨ 
¡§I don't either, but let's call a blade a blade. People see a heavy, angled, razor-sharp 
edge waiting to be triggered from the top of a grooved track, with a head-shaped 
yoke at the bottom over a handy basket, and my guess is they'll have a clue what it's 
about.¡¨ 
Ms. Ivins shifted in her chair, made another check mark on her list, and said, ¡§I 
shouldn't put it so crassly. But my guess, no my sincere belief, is that these will 
hardly, if ever, be used at all.¡¨ 
¡§You really think so?¡¨ 
¡§Absolutely. They shall merely serve as a tangible symbol for the seriousness of the 
exercise.¡¨ 
¡§In other words, willingly express your loyalty or we chop your head off.¡¨ 
¡§That will not need to be said.¡¨ 
¡§I should guess not.¡¨ 
¡§But, Mr. Hassid, I wager that only the most unusually hard cases, so few and far 
between that they will be newsworthy for their uniqueness, will result in complete 
consummation of the enforcement.¡¨ 
I'd hate to see incomplete consummation of the enforcement. ¡§You're confident, 
then, that all opposition has been eradicated.¡¨ 
¡§Of course,¡¨ she said. ¡§Who in their right mind could see the resurrection of a man 
dead three days and not believe in him as God?¡¨ 
Rayford did not get the reception he expected, and Chloe hurried to him to explain 
it. He was staggered by the news of Annie. The three sat, stunned as the rest, and 
most, it appeared, avoided eye contact with Hattie. 
¡§What do we hear from David?¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§Is he all right?¡¨ 

¡§We heard from Mac,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Worse is that David collapsed from heat 
exhaustion or sunstroke or something, and that just delayed his finding out about 
Annie.¡¨ 
Rayford sat shaking his head. He knew more and more of this would be their lot, 
but it never seemed to get easier. 
¡§Not everybody knows everyone else here,¡¨ he said finally, and made cursory, 
subdued introductions. 
¡§'Scuse me,¡¨ Zeke said, ¡§but is it OK if I ask a dumb question?¡¨ 
¡§Anything,¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§No offense, lady,¡¨ he said to Hattie, ¡§but I didn't expect to see a mark on you.¡¨ 
Tsion stood, lips trembling, and approached her. ¡§Is it true, dear one?¡¨ he said, 
putting his hands on her shoulders. ¡§Let me look at you.¡¨ 
Hattie nodded, her eyes darting to Buck and Chloe, who stared, wide eyed. 
Tsion embraced her, weeping. ¡§Praise God, praise God,¡¨ he said. ¡§Lord, you take 
one away and send one anew.¡¨ He opened his eyes. ¡§So, tell us. When? How? What 
happened?¡¨ 
¡§Not twenty-four hours ago,¡¨ she said. ¡§It wasn't just one thing, but all of you 
caring about me, loving me, pleading with me, praying for me. If you have not 
heard Albie's story, though, make sure you do soon.¡¨ 
She leaned close and whispered in Tsion's ear. 
¡§Certainly,¡¨ he said. ¡§Chaim, Zeke, Albie, Leah, let's let our new sister have a few 
moments with the Steele family, shall we? There will be plenty of time for getting 
acquainted.¡¨ 
The others rose and followed Tsion as if they understood, though Zeke looked 
puzzled. When it was just the four of them, Hattie stood as Rayford, Buck, and 
Chloe sat. ¡§I'm so happy for you,¡¨ Chloe said, ¡§and I mean it even if I sound 
stunned. I am. I wish you'd told me on the phone before I went off on you.¡¨ 
¡§No, Chloe, I deserved that. And I don't blame any of you for being shocked. I'm a 
little shocked myself. But I have so much to explain. Well, not to explain, because 
who can explain rottenness? But to apologize for it. I was so awful to you, all of you 
at different times. I don't know how you could ever forgive me.¡¨ 
¡§Hattie,¡¨ Chloe said, ¡§it's all right. You don't have to¡X¡¨ 
¡§Yes, I do. And Chloe, one thing you need to know is that something you said to me 
a long time ago never left me. I couldn't get it out of my mind, though I tried over 
and over. It was when I visited you at Loretta's house and I accused you all of just 
trying to change my mind about an abortion and of only really loving me if I bought 
into the whole package and agreed with everything you said. Remember?¡¨ 
Chloe nodded. 

Hattie continued. ¡§Even though you were so much younger than me, you told me 
that you all wanted to love me the way God loved me, and that was whether I 
agreed with you or not. No matter what I did or what I decided, you would love me 
because that was the way God loved you, even when you were dead in your sins.¡¨ 
¡§I don't remember being that articulate,¡¨ Chloe said, her eyes filling. 
¡§Well,¡¨ Hattie said, ¡§you were right. God loved me at my lowest. And to think I 
almost killed myself before he finally got to me.¡¨ 
¡§They don't know that story,¡¨ Rayford reminded her. And she told them everything, 
from the time the GC in Colorado apprehended her to that very moment. 
¡§I was so worried that you would never forgive me,¡¨ she concluded. 
Chloe stood to embrace her. Then Buck did. ¡§You've never forgiven me for 
something that was worse than anything you ever pulled, Hattie.¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ 
¡§I introduced you to Nicolae Carpathia.¡¨ 
She nodded, smiling through tears. ¡§That was pretty bad,¡¨ she said. ¡§But how could 
you know? He fooled almost everybody at first. I wish I'd never laid eyes on him, 
but I also wouldn't trade a thing about my life now. It all pointed to today.¡¨ 
David was antsy. He wanted Viv Ivins to leave so he could get started on his real 
chores. She rattled on about Fortunato. 
¡§He'll move into Peter Mathews's old office, but nothing will be the same there. 
There's no Enigma Babylon One World Faith anymore, because there's no enigma. 
We know whom to worship now, don't we, Mr. Hassid?¡¨ 
¡§We sure do,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Now,¡¨ she said, ¡§there is one more item. You're aware that you lost an employee 
the other day?¡¨ She flipped a page in her notebook and read, ¡§ 'Single, white, 
female, twenty-two, almost twenty-three, Angel Rich Christopher.' Rich is 
apparently a family name.¡¨ 
David held his breath and nodded. 
¡§Lightning victim,¡¨ Viv added. ¡§One of several.¡¨ 
¡§I was aware of that, yes.¡¨ 
¡§I just wanted to tell you that if you were planning any sort of memorial, I'd advise 
against it.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry?¡¨ 
¡§We have simply lost too many employees to make it practical to give them all their 
moments, if you will.¡¨ 
David was offended, especially for Annie. ¡§I, uh, have attended other such 
ceremonies. They have been short but appropriate.¡¨ 

¡§Well, this one would not be appropriate. Understood?¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
¡§No?¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry, I don't understand. Why would it not be appropriate to remember a 
coworker who¡X¡¨ 
¡§If you would think about it for just a moment, you would likely understand.¡¨ 
¡§Save me the time, please.¡¨ 
¡§Well, Mr. Hassid, Miss Christopher was apparently struck by lightning when the 
now Reverend Fortunato was calling down fire from heaven on those who refused 
to recognize His Excellency the Potentate as the true and living God.¡¨ 
¡§You're saying her death proves she was subversive. That Fortunato killed her.¡¨ 
¡§God killed her, Director. Call it subversive or whatever you will, it is obvious to all 
who were present¡Xand I know you were¡Xthat only skeptics suffered for their 
unbelief that day.¡¨ 
David pursed his lips and scratched his head. ¡§If we are not memorializing 
employees who did not recognize Nicolae Carpathia as deity, I understand and will 
comply.¡¨ 
¡§I thought you would, sir.¡¨ She rose and waited for David to open the door for her. 
¡§Good day to you, Director. You know I am always available, should you need 
anything at all.¡¨ 
¡§Well, there is one more thing.¡¨ 
¡§Name it.¡¨ 
¡§The biochip injectors you mentioned. Are they similar to the type used for 
inserting the same into household pets?¡¨ 
¡§I believe they are, with certain modifications.¡¨ 
¡§One of the nurses who attended me happened to mention that she got her start in 
medicine as a veterinarian's assistant. I wonder if she has any experience with that 
kind of technology that might be helpful to us.¡¨ 
¡§Good thinking. Give me her name and I'll check it out.¡¨ 
¡§I don't recall offhand,¡¨ he said. ¡§But it should be easy enough to find out. I'll call 
you with it.¡¨ 
As soon as Viv was gone, David phoned Hannah. ¡§I'll be giving your name to Viv 
Ivins. Expect a call.¡¨ 
¡§Got it.¡¨ 
He told her of the prohibition against even a moment of silence in his department 
for Annie. 
¡§That's perfect,¡¨ she said. ¡§David, she would wear that like a badge of honor. If 

being honored made it appear she was a Carpathia loyalist, you'd have to answer to 
her in heaven someday.¡¨ 
ELEVEN 
For the next several days in the safe house, Rayford quietly observed the group 
dynamics and took notes. Tsion and Chaim spent most of their time studying. Leah 
seemed bored with helping Chloe with the international co-op, and while she got 
acquainted with Hattie, Hattie was getting on everyone's nerves. Everyone's except 
Zeke's. He mostly kept to himself and didn't appear affected by personal 
idiosyncrasies. 
Rayford asked Tsion to lead the group in a brief Bible study each day, and they 
prayed together. Everyone was also expected to log on to Tsion's daily 
cybermessage. Each took a turn spray painting the insides of exposed windows until 
all the floors they were using were invisible to the outside, even with lights on. 
A week after Rayford had brought Hattie into the safe house, he called a meeting to 
officially insert Chaim, Zeke, Albie, and Hattie into the Tribulation Force. They 
watched the Internet and television for information on when and how the mark of 
loyalty would be administered. And Buck was back in full swing with his The Truth 
cyberzine. With his international contacts and his ability to write stories that had a 
ring of authenticity without exposing believers in high places, Buck's was the most 
popular site on the Net, except for Tsion's. Through contacts Chloe lined up in the 
co-op, Buck enlisted underground printers all over the world who risked their lives 
publishing The Truth and Tsion's messages for those without access to computers. 
Hattie evolved from a hesitant newcomer to the vivacious, excited believer she had 
been that first morning in Bozeman. Rayford enjoyed her spirit, and it seemed Tsion 
did too. The others' eyes seemed to glaze over each time she exulted over something 
anew. Something had to give. The Trib Force had plenty of space and privacy, but 
even in a massive skyscraper, cabin fever set in. 
Fresh air was a problem. The building ventilation system worked fine, but other 
than the occasional slightly opened window that brought in crisp, fall breezes, 
everyone longed for time outdoors in the daylight. Too risky, Rayford told them, 
and even Kenny Bruce was taken out only after dark. 
One by one his comrades came to Rayford in private, and while they carefully 
avoided bad-mouthing each other, all had similar requests. Each wanted an 
assignment, something away from the safe house. They wanted to be proactive, not 
waiting for Nicolae and the GC to be the only ones on the offensive. 
All but Zeke, that is, who seemed content with his role. He inventoried the tools and 
supplies necessary to outfit the best forgery and phony identification operation 

possible. ¡§I'm not a book readin' kind of a guy,¡¨ he told Rayford, ¡§but I can see 
what's coming.¡¨ 
¡§You can?¡¨ 
Zeke nodded. ¡§Dr. Ben-Judah is training Chaim what's-his-name to go back to 
Israel. That means I gotta work on a new ID for him, and not just on paper. He's 
gotta look like somebody else, because everybody knows him all over the world.¡¨ 
Rayford could only nod. 
¡§You can't change a guy's height and weight, and I'm no plastic surgeon. But there's 
things you can do. He's got that Einstein hair thing goin' now, and he shaves. I'd 
bald him and dye his eyebrows dark. Then have him grow a big bushy beard or 
maybe muttonchops and a mustache, and make them dark too. He'll look younger 
and kinda hip, but mostly he won't look like himself. We gotta get rid of the glasses 
or change 'em drastically. Then I'd give him colored contacts. If he can get along 
without a prescription, I got plenty he can choose from.¡¨ 
¡§Uh-huh,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§Zeke, what makes you think he's going back to Israel?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, he isn't? Well, my mistake then. I just figured.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not saying you're wrong. I just wondered why you figured that.¡¨ 
¡§I don't know. Somebody's got to go, and you guys have never wanted to risk Dr. 
Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§Somebody's got to go to Israel? Why?¡¨ 
Zeke furrowed his brow. ¡§I don't know. You can tell me if I'm wrong 'cause a lot of 
time I am, but Dad says I've got intuition. I try to figure out Zion's messages each 
day, but like I say, readin's not my thing. I don't think I ever read a book all the way 
through, except maybe a parts manual and then only over about six years. But Zion 
makes those daily message things pretty easy to understand for a smart guy. I'm 
sayin' he's smart, not mo. Most smart guys think they're explainin' something, but 
they're the only ones who understand it. You know what I mean?¡¨ 
¡§Sure.¡¨ 
¡§Well, what I'm gettin' from Zion lately is that Carpathia is up to somethin'. And it 
has to do with Jerusalem. Zion says the Bible says the Antichrist is not only gonna 
pull a fast one on the Jews, he's also gonna brag about it right in their own temple 
and defile it somehow and break his promise.¡¨ 
¡§I think you've pretty much got that down, Zeke. How does Chaim play into it?¡¨ 
¡§Zion says God's preparin' a safe place for the Jews to run off to, but they got to 
have a leader. Zion can lead 'em on the Net, but they need somebody there, 
somebody they can see. He's gotta be Jewish. He's gotta be a believer. He's gotta be 
popular or at least be able to get people to follow him. And he's gotta know a lot of 
stuff. The only person that's gonna know more than Zion pretty soon will be Chaim. 
And no way I think Zion's goin' over there.¡¨ 

¡§It's just as dangerous for Chaim, isn't it, Zeke?¡¨ 
¡§Well, I don't know who'd be worse in Carpathia's mind, the guy who's tellin' the 
whole world Carpathia's the devil himself or the guy what ran a sword through his 
brain. But the fact is, we¡XI mean us believers¡Xcould probably get along without 
Chaim if we had to. But we're in trouble without Zion.¡¨ 
Zeke looked troubled for having said it. 
Rayford stood and paced. ¡§Well, Zeke, your dad's right about your intuition. You've 
hit this nail on the head.¡¨ 
¡§Then I'm gonna be asked to help send him over there as, what's his new name?¡¨ 
¡§Tobias Rogoff.¡¨ 
¡§Right. As him?¡¨ 
¡§You are.¡¨ 
¡§Don't you think a lot of people will recognize his voice and his body type? People 
notice hands too. I might have to work on that.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, there will be people who know right away who he is. And if David is right 
that there is tape showing him murdering Carpathia, I can see the GC showing that 
to the world. But Carpathia himself has already pardoned his attacker.¡¨ 
¡§But Carpathia also said he can't control what other citizens might do to the guy, so 
Chaim would be livin' on borrowed time, don't you think?¡¨ 
¡§If he can get to the safe haven with the Jews, I think he will be supernaturally 
protected.¡¨ 
¡§That would be cool.¡¨ 
¡§You said you weren't a plastic surgeon. Are there less invasive ways to change 
someone's appearance?¡¨ 
Zeke nodded. ¡§There's dental gizmos.¡¨ 
¡§Appliances.¡¨ 
¡§Right. I used one on Leah, and I've got plenty more. We can really change the look 
of a man's teeth and jaw.¡¨ 
¡§How about one whose jaw is wired shut?¡¨ 
¡§Even better. Leah's going to take out those wires soon. I think we can make him 
look like somebody else. Then he has to dress different than he ever has, maybe 
walk different. I can get him to do that just by adding a little somethin' to one of his 
shoes. I'll be ready when he is.¡¨ 
David dealt with his grief by working every waking moment and then crashing hard 
till he had no choice but to sleep. He assigned Mac and Abdullah the task of 
planning their disappearance, as conceived by Hannah. Meanwhile, he planted far 
and wide in the complex access numbers that would allow him, with the right 

keystrokes, to hack into the system and monitor the goings-on as fully as he was 
able to do now, at least for as long as the current system was used. 
David found listening in on Nicolae and Leon and Hickman almost addictive, but he 
also enjoyed hearing what Security Chief Walter Moon had to say. While it was 
unlikely Moon would become a believer, who could know for sure? If he did, it 
would have to be before the initiation of the mark on employees, because, as Tsion 
taught, Scripture was clear that that was a once-and-for-all decision. But Moon, 
from what David could gather, shared openly with both his assistant and his most 
trusted subordinate that he believed he had been overlooked for the role of Supreme 
Commander. He spent most of his time swearing, ironically, ¡§on a stack of Bibles,¡¨ 
that he wouldn't have taken the job if it had been offered. But the opposite was so 
obviously and patently true that even his confidants felt free to tell him, ¡§Of course 
you would have, and it should have gone to you.¡¨ 
David daydreamed of having Moon on his side, a grouser within the palace who had 
the potential for subversion. 
The new intelligence director, replacing Jim Hickman, was a Pakistani named 
Suhail Akbar. A devout Carpathia supporter, he was a behind-the-scenes kind of 
guy, quiet and slow to voice an opinion but with a resume that far outstripped his 
former superior's for experience and training. David feared he was bright enough to 
be a problem. Bright was not an adjective ever applied to Hickman. 
¡§It is crucial,¡¨ David e-mailed Mac one afternoon following a heavy day of hacking 
and setup for a future of the same, ¡§that we leave no room for questioning our 
loyalty to the GC and to Carpathia specifically. I challenge the brass occasionally 
for the very purpose of keeping them from suspecting me, and I believe they do 
suspect those who seem blindly loyal. I want them to ask themselves, Why would 
Hassid challenge us and yet stay and serve so capably if he is not simply trying to 
make the place the best it can be? 
¡§Mac, we have to plan ahead, plant the problem that will explain our demise and 
cost the GC some plum pieces of equipment. I wouldn't mind seeing the plane go 
down with a few million Nicks' worth of biochip injectors and even loyalty 
enforcement facilitators. Wonder if guillotines are listed that way in the top end 
head-chopping paraphernalia catalogs? Sorry for the gallows humor; it's no 
laughing matter. Praise God he can make glorified bodies even of those saints who 
have been dismembered, cremated, or lightning struck. 
¡§At the risk of insulting your intelligence, I must caution against even considering 
wasting the Phoenix 216. Much as I would love to tweak Carpathia's nose with the 
loss of his precious ride, we have way too much invested in the bugging system, 
which I am now able to access even from outside the plane. For whatever time God 
allows us the freedom to listen in, I can imagine no greater source of information. I 
have developed a program that can even track the position of the craft via satellite. 
It is always fun and enlightening, isn't it, when Nicolae thinks he's in a wholly 

secure environment and lets his hair down? The bluster and posturing among his 
people is one thing, but to hear him cackle and admit to his most trusted aides the 
very things he denies everywhere else, well, that's when it's worth it. 
¡§Speaking of that, he has a meeting scheduled with Hickman, Moon, Akbar, and 
Fortunato that I plan to tape. If you think his go-rounds with just Leon were 
hilarious, wait till you hear this. I'll upload it to you. Remember the unique secure 
code for all this privileged information and secure transmissions. Should anyone, 
yourself included, try to access these files with the wrong code, I have programmed 
in a bug so nasty that it really should be called a monster. This is a creature that 
ignores the software programs and attacks the hardware. 
¡§If I hadn't developed it myself, I wouldn't have believed it. This thing will literally 
intercept the impulses being relayed from point to point in the processor, carry them 
to the power source, whether battery or AC, and draw the current into the 
motherboard itself. If there were an incendiary device in there, I could get a 
computer to literally blow up in a hacker's face. Given that all that is in there is 
plastic and metal, the best I can do is produce a lot of heat, smoke, and some 
melting. Regardless, the victim computer is irreparable after that. 
¡§More later, confrere. I'll look for something concrete from you and Abdullah 
within forty-eight hours. Meanwhile, it's less obvious and risky for you to have 
occasion to run into Hannah than for me to. Keep her warm and courageous as a 
compatriot and assure her that we will get out in time and have productive years left 
to devote to the cause of the kingdom.¡¨ 
Rayford, who had been kept up-to-date by David once he was up and around again, 
worried about the calendar. He had been noodling the most effective roles for each 
member of the Force, and the prospect of a sudden infusion of four members 
displaced from the palace had both its up- and downsides. Were he to bring them all 
to Chicago, he would add to the base of operations two pilots, a nurse, and one of 
the world's greatest computer geniuses. Clearly he had the room, but he wondered if 
having virtually everybody in one place was the most efficient use of resources. 
Not just for their own psyches but also for the sake of the two-pronged overall 
mission-stymieing Carpathia where possible and winning as many people to the 
kingdom as they could¡Xit might make more sense to spread the talent around the 
globe. Hattie and Leah were restless and eager for assignments. Chloe was resigned 
to staying, because of Kenny and the work of the co-op, but Buck needed live 
exposure to what was going on to make his cyberzine as effective as it could be. 
Rayford and Albie needed all the pilots they could get, but planes weren't plentiful 
either. If he and the insightful if inarticulate Zeke were right about what Tsion was 
up to, thousands of pilots and planes would have to be recruited from around the 
world to airlift Jewish believers to safety. Veteran pilots like Mac and Abdullah 
could help make that happen. 
But in an instant in the middle of the night, Rayford went from thinking he had 

more than two more weeks to think and plan how to best make use of the New 
Babylon contingent to realizing he had to act quickly. Time was a luxury he never 
had enough of, but an emergency threw everything into turmoil. 
Rayford's phone rang, but no one was there. He checked the readout. A message 
from Lukas (Laslos) Miklos. ¡§Have been found out,¡¨ it read. ¡§Pastor and my wife 
detained, among others. Pray please. Help please.¡¨ The underground church in 
Ptolemai's was the largest in Greece and likely the largest in the United Carpathian 
States. Up to now the local GC presence had not been a problem. The Greek 
believers had been careful, Rayford knew from personal experience, but even they 
feared GC Security and Intelligence sources could not look the other way much 
longer. Part of the reason they felt they had been ignored was that local GC 
leadership believed Carpathia wanted the region that bore his name to have the 
lowest reported incidence of insurgence of the ten global supercommunities. 
Whatever public relations sensitivities Carpathia had exhibited before his 
assassination, since his resurrection his emphasis had been on enforcement. 
Apparently, Rayford deduced, the new Carpathia would rather eradicate the 
opposition within his own duchy than pretend it didn't exist. Rayford would ask 
David to check into the situation and see what would be served by a Trib Force 
party showing its face over there. 
Rayford had known Mrs. Miklos to be a quiet, deeply spiritual woman. But Laslos 
had told him she was also opinionated, stubborn, and brave. She was not the type to 
back down if confronted over the exercise of her beliefs by those in authority. 
Rayford imagined the GC storming a meeting and Mrs. Miklos resisting and even 
putting up a fuss rather than allowing her pastor, Demetrius Demeter, to be taken 
into custody. 
But Rayford didn't want his imagination to run away with him. He would find out 
what he could from David and perhaps take a run over there with Albie. Or perhaps 
with Buck. He hated the idea of leaving the Trib Force without so much as a 
helicopter pilot. 
David was keying in his coordinates to listen to Carpathia's meeting with Hickman 
and the others when he got a call from Rayford regarding a GC vs. underground 
church skirmish in Greece. ¡§I'll let you know what I find out,¡¨ he told Rayford. 
David phoned Walter Moon, but before Walter answered, David was surprised to be 
paged to Hickman's office. 
His office? Hickman shared space with Carpathia's assistant. And didn't Hickman 
have a meeting with Carpathia soon? David hung up and called Hickman. The 
assistant, Sandra, answered. ¡§Hassid here. Was I just paged?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir. The Supreme Commander would like you to meet with him in the 
conference room, eighteenth floor.¡¨ 
David found a mess. Though the workday was moments from being over and 
Sandra was packing up to leave, workmen still jammed the area. Drills, saws, 

hammers, dust, scaffolds, ladders, materials everywhere. 
¡§They're not going to relocate you while they're working?¡¨ David said. 
¡§Apparently not,¡¨ Sandra said, and she marched off. 
Hickman opened the door to a conference room that was not long for this world and 
waved David in. ¡§Hurry and let me get this door closed, Hassid. Less sawdust.¡¨ 
The new Supreme Commander, a Western version of Fortunato with even less class, 
offered a fleshy hand and shook David's enthusiastically. ¡§Yeah, hey, how ya doin'? 
He is risen, huh?¡¨ 
¡§Huh,¡¨ David said, and when Hickman shot him a double take, he added, ¡§Indeed.¡¨ 
Hickman appeared nervous and in a hurry. David thought he could pry information 
from him by playing dumb. ¡§So, just about the end of your day, hmm? How's it 
been, sharing space with¡X¡¨ 
¡§Never mind that,¡¨ Hickman said, sitting and letting his generous belly push past 
his unbuttoned uniform jacket. ¡§Got a meeting coming up with the big guys, and I'd 
rather not go in there unprepared.¡¨ 
That'll be the day, David thought. ¡§How can I help?¡¨ he said. 
¡§We all up-to-date, up to snuff, on track, on target, on course?¡¨ 
David shook his head, amazed. ¡§All of the above, I guess. What are we talking 
about?¡¨ 
Hickman grabbed a dog-eared pad and riffled through a couple of pages. 
¡§Guillotines, syringes?¡¨ 
¡§You mean loyalty enforcement facilitators and biochip injectors?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, thanks!¡¨ Hickman said, scribbling. ¡§I knew Viv had some special names for 
those. You know, Hassid, basically I was a cop. I'm honored and everything, but I 
gotta prove to His Majesty, ah, His Excellency, that I can handle this. That I'm not 
in over my head.¡¨ 
¡§You feel you are?¡¨ 
¡§What I feel is that my loyalty and my devotion to the potentate will make up for 
any lack of experience I've had at this level of management. Now where are we on 
these things? What can I tell him?¡¨ 
¡§That we're on track, on pace.¡¨ 
¡§Good. I can count on you then.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, can you ever, J-, er, Supreme Commander.¡¨ 
¡§Ah, you can call me Commander when it's just you and me. Keep it formal in 
public, of course.¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§By the way, do you purchase livestock too?¡¨ 

¡§You mean foodstuffs? No, that would be Food Services.¡¨ 
¡§No, this is live. I don't need food. I need a live animal.¡¨ 
¡§Still not my area, I'm afraid. Rolling stock, avionics, computers, communications 
hardware. That's my game.¡¨ 
¡§Who's going to help me procure a pig?¡¨ 
¡§A pig, sir?¡¨ 
¡§Huge and live, Hassid.¡¨ 
¡§I have no idea.¡¨ 
Hickman stared at him, apparently not accepting the dodge. 
¡§I could look into it,¡¨ David said. ¡§But¡X¡¨ 
¡§I knew I could count on you, David. Good man. Let me know first thing in the 
morning, 'cause the word I get is that the big man is going to assign me that today.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, you haven't even heard from him about it yet?¡¨ 
¡§No, this is what you'd call a heads-up from a colleague who cares.¡¨ 
¡§Really?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, yeah. Guy like me tends to accumulate friends all up and down the corporate 
ladder. Buddy told me today he was in on a meeting with Fortunato and Carp¡Xoh, 
forgive me! I know better'n that. I should never use those names, especially in front 
of a subordinate. I'm gonna direct you to disregard that, Hassid, as your superior 
officer.¡¨ 
¡§Jury will disregard, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, good. Anyhow, this guy's in a meeting with His Excellency and the Most 
High Reverend, and he says they're agitated¡Xyou know what that means? 
Exercised, I guess you'd say.¡¨ 
¡§Understood, Commander.¡¨ 
¡§They're upset, up in arms, whatever you wanna call it, about the Judah-ites.¡¨ 
¡§I've heard of them, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I know you have. Their top guy, who Peacekeeping thought they had flushed out 
and sent packin', turns up now in a new place¡Xwe don't know where, which doesn't 
have Carp¡Xthe potentate, any too cheery, if ya know what I mean¡Xand this Judah 
guy's turnin' out more and more of this anti-Carpath¡Xwell, I guess, yeah, it's OK in 
that context. This guy's disseminatin' anti-Carpathia stuff everywhere. He's 
predictin' and says the Holy Bible prophesies that Antichrist¡Xwhich is what he 
calls His Excellency, imagine¡Xis gonna defile the temple and sacrifice a pig on the 
altar.¡¨ 
¡§You don't say.¡¨ 

¡§I do say, and while I wasn't there, my buddy tells me the potentate is fiery mad; I 
mean he's hoppin'.¡¨ 
¡§I can imagine.¡¨ 
¡§Me too. He says to the Reverend, he says somethin' along the lines of, 'Oh, yeah, 
well, maybe I will show them.' You know how he talks, never usin' contractions and 
like that.¡¨ 
¡§I do.¡¨ 
¡§So, and this is the genius of Nicolae Carpathia, if you'll forgive the familiar 
reference. He's gonna like, get this, fulfill this prophecy¡Xthe one in the Bible and 
the one by Ben Judah-ite, or, um¡X¡¨ 
¡§Tsion Ben-Judah.¡¨ 
¡§Right! He's gonna sacrifice a pig on the altar of the temple in Jerusalem on 
purpose, knowing what the guy and the Holy Bible are sayin'. Sorta in yer face, 
wouldn't you say?¡¨ 
¡§That's for sure.¡¨ In God's face, no less. 
¡§Well, see I don't know this yet, you follow?¡¨ 
¡§Sure. It's on the QT from your buddy.¡¨ 
¡§Exactly. But when he, you-know-who, asks me can I get him a pig, I want to be 
able to tell him no problem. Can I tell him that? You're going to check with, with, 
ah, your people or whatever, and I'm gonna get him this pig, right?¡¨ 
¡§I'll do my best, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I knew you would. Hot dog, you're good.¡¨ 
¡§You said that on purpose, didn't you, sir?¡¨ 
¡§What's that?¡¨ 
¡§Talking about a pig, and you said 'hot dog.' ¡¨ Hickman disintegrated into gales of 
laughter, then tried to pretend he had indeed said it on purpose. When he regained 
control, he said, ¡§You know what I want, Hassid?¡¨ 
¡§Tell me.¡¨ 
¡§I want a pig, are you ready¡X?¡¨ 
¡§I'm ready.¡¨ 
¡§¡Xbig enough for His Excellency to ride.¡¨ 
¡§Sir?¡¨ 
¡§You heard me. I want the biggest pig you've ever seen in your life. Big as a pony. 
Big enough to put a saddle on, not literally, but you know what I mean.¡¨ 
¡§Not sure I do, Commander.¡¨ 
¡§I'm tryin' to earn a few points here, understand, Director? Just like you're doin' 

without tryin', 'cause you're just that good. But I wanna be able to suggest to His 
Excellency that if he's gonna take the gloves off and go toe-to-toe with his worst 
enemies, he oughta go 'em one better.¡¨ 
Take the gloves off to go toe-to-toe? Annie would have loved that mixed metaphor. 
¡§One better?¡¨ 
¡§He ought to ride that pig into the temple!¡¨ 
¡§Oh, my.¡¨ David could not imagine Carpathia, even at his basest, lowering himself 
to such a spectacle. ¡§Oh, my is right, Hassid. You read the Bible?¡¨ 
¡§Ever?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah.¡¨ 
¡§Some.¡¨ 
¡§Well, isn't there a story about Jesus ridin' into Jerusalem on a donkey and people 
singin' and throwin' leaves and whatnot?¡¨ 
¡§I was raised Jewish.¡¨ 
¡§So no New Testament for you. Well, anyway, there is that story, I'm pretty sure. 
Picture His Excellency havin' fun with that. Ridin' a pig with people paid to sing 
and throw stuff.¡¨ 
Lord, please! ¡§I can't imagine.¡¨ 
¡§I can come up with 'em, can't I, Hassid?¡¨ 
¡§You can, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Hey, I'd better get in there. Get on that pig for me, will ya? I'm gonna tell him it's 
as good as got.¡¨ 
¡§I'll let you know.¡¨ 
David was on his way out the door when Hickman called after him. ¡§I forgot to tell 
you,¡¨ he said, turning pages on his pad again. ¡§There's a gal in Medical Services, a 
nurse. Here it is. She used to be a vet or something and she's shot biochips into dogs 
and cats.¡¨ 
¡§You don't say,¡¨ David said. 
¡§You might want to check her out, see if we can take advantage of her expertise. 
You know, in training people how to do this.¡¨ 
¡§I'll check her out. What's the name?¡¨ 
¡§I don't think I have it right, Hassid. Some kind of a funny name. You'll be able to 
track her down.¡¨ 
¡§I'll ask for the nurse with the funny name, sir.¡¨ 

TWELVE 
Rayford couldn't sleep. Pacing various floors in the cavernous Strong Building, he 
happened by Chaim's room. The door was wide open, and in the darkness he 
noticed the old man's silhouette. Chaim sat motionless on the bed, though Rayford 
knew he had to hear and see him in the corridor. Rayford poked his head in. 
¡§You all right, Dr. Rosenzweig?¡¨ 
A loud sigh through the wire-bound clenched teeth. ¡§I don't know, my friend.¡¨ 
¡§Want to talk?¡¨ 
A low chuckle. ¡§You know my culture. Talk is what we do. If you have time, come 
in. I welcome you.¡¨ 
Rayford pulled up a chair and sat facing Chaim in the darkness. The botanist 
seemed in no hurry. Finally, he said, ¡§The young woman takes my wire out 
tomorrow.¡¨ 
¡§Leah, yes. You can't tell me you're worried about that.¡¨ 
¡§I can hardly contain myself waiting.¡¨ 
¡§But something else is on your mind.¡¨ 
Chaim fell silent again, but soon he began panting, then leaned to his pillow where 
he was racked with great sobs. Rayford pulled his chair closer and laid a hand on 
the man's shoulder. ¡§Talk to me.¡¨ 
¡§I have lost so much!¡¨ Chaim wailed, and Rayford strained to understand him. ¡§My 
family! My staff! And it is all my fault!¡¨ 
¡§Little is our fault anymore, sir. Carpathia is in charge of everything now.¡¨ 
¡§But I was so proud! So skeptical! Tsion and Cameron and Chloe and you and 
everyone who cared about me warned me, tried to persuade me. But oh, no, I was 
too intellectual. I knew better!¡¨ 
¡§But you came to the Lord, Chaim. We must not live in the past when all things 
have become new.¡¨ 
¡§But look where I was not, that long ago! Tsion is joyful in spite of it all, so happy 
for me, so encouraging. I dare not tell him where my mind is.¡¨ 
¡§Where is it?¡¨ 
¡§I am guilty, Captain Steele! I could do as you say, put the past behind me, if all I 
was dealing with was my pride and ignorance. But it led me down paths I never 
believed I would walk. My dearest, most trusted friends are dead because of me. 
Slaughtered in my house!¡¨ 
Rayford resisted platitudes. ¡§We have all lost much,¡¨ he whispered. ¡§Two wives 
and a son for me, many friends¡Xtoo many to think about or I'd go mad.¡¨ 

Chaim sat up again, wiping his face with both hands. 
¡§That is my problem, Rayford. I have gone nearly mad with grief, but mostly 
remorse. I murdered a man! I know he is Antichrist and that he was destined to die 
and come back to life, but I didn't know that when I committed the act. I murdered a 
man who had betrayed my homeland and me. Murder! Think of it! I was a beloved 
statesman, yet I stooped to assassination.¡¨ 
¡§I understand rage, Chaim. I wanted to murder Carpathia myself, and I knew 
exactly who he was and that he would not stay dead.¡¨ 
¡§But I premeditated it, Captain, planned it many months in advance, virtually 
invented and manufactured the weapon myself, faked a stroke just to get myself in 
proximity to him without suspicion, then finished the job exactly as I had 
envisioned it. I am a murderer.¡¨ 
Rayford leaned forward and rested his elbows on his knees, head in his hands. ¡§You 
know I almost saved you the work.¡¨ 
¡§I don't understand.¡¨ 
¡§You heard a gunshot before you attacked Carpathia.¡¨ 
¡§Yes.¡¨ 
¡§My gun.¡¨ 
¡§I don't believe you.¡¨ 
Rayford told him the story of his own anger, personality change, plotting, the 
purchase of the weapon, his determination to do the deed. 
Chaim sat shaking his head. ¡§I can hardly believe that the two people who dared 
attack Nicolae are in the same room. But in the end you could not do it. I did it with 
enthusiasm, and even up to the time I finally saw my need for God, I was glad I did 
it. Now I suffer such regret and shame I can barely breathe.¡¨ 
¡§Can you take no solace in the fact that this was destiny, and that you cannot be 
guilty of murdering a man who is alive?¡¨ 
¡§Solace? I would give all I own for a moment of peace. It isn't whom I did this to, 
Rayford. It is that I did it. I did not know the depth of my own wickedness.¡¨ 
¡§And yet God has saved you.¡¨ 
¡§Tell me, is one supposed to feel forgiven?¡¨ 
¡§Good question. I have faced the same dilemma. I have full faith in the power of 
God to forgive and forget, to separate us from our sins as far as the east is from the 
west. But I'm human too. / don't forget and thus often I don't appropriate the 
forgiveness God extends. Because we feel guilty does not mean God does not have 
the power to absolve us.¡¨ 
¡§But Tsion tells me I may have a greater destiny, that I just might be the one to be 
used to lead my believing countrymen to safety from Antichrist. How could he say 

that and how could I do such a thing when I feel the way I do?¡¨ 
Rayford stood. ¡§Perhaps the fallacy is in thinking it would have to be you who 
accomplishes this.¡¨ 
¡§I would love to be out from under the weight of it, but as Tsion says, who else? He 
himself cannot risk it.¡¨ 
¡§I'm saying it's something God is going to do, through you.¡¨ 
¡§But who am I? A scientist. I am not eloquent. I don't know the Word of God. I 
barely know God. I was not even a religious Jew until just days ago.¡¨ 
¡§Yet as a child you must have been exposed to the Torah.¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§If Tsion is right, and not even he is sure, this could be your burning-bush 
experience.¡¨ 
¡§No one will ever see me as Moses.¡¨ 
¡§Are you willing to let God use you? Because if Tsion is right and you do what he 
thinks you should do, you would be a modern-day Moses.¡¨ 
¡§Ach!¡¨ 
¡§You could be used of God to flee the evil ruler and take your people to a safe 
haven.¡¨ 
Chaim moaned and lay down again. 
¡§Moses pled the same case you're pleading,¡¨ Rayford said. ¡§The question is whether 
you are willing.¡¨ 
¡§I know.¡¨ 
¡§You're right. You were depraved. We all were, until Christ saved us. God can 
make a miracle of your life.¡¨ 
Chaim mumbled. 
¡§I'm sorry?¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§I said I want to be willing. I am willing to be willing.¡¨ 
¡§That's a start.¡¨ 
¡§But God is going to have to do something in me.¡¨ 
¡§He already has.¡¨ 
¡§But more. I could no more accept this assignment now than I could fly. The person 
who accepts this duty must have a clear conscience, confidence that comes only 
from God, and communication ability far beyond what I have ever possessed. I was 
able to hold forth in a classroom, but to speak to thousands as Tsion has done, to 
publicly oppose Antichrist himself, to rally the masses to do what is right? I don't 
see it. I just don't.¡¨ 

¡§But you are willing to trust God to work?¡¨ 
¡§He is my only hope. I am at the end of myself.¡¨ 
At high noon Carpathia Time in New Babylon, David left the palace and went 
outside for the first time in days. He was to have his stitches removed at two that 
afternoon, and he looked forward to seeing Hannah Palemoon again, even in a 
sterile setting where they might not be able to converse freely. 
The heat reminded David of the day of Nicolae's resurrection. It didn't seem right to 
stroll the grounds of the spectacular palace without Annie. His pain was so raw and 
the ache so deep that it made his scalp wound fade to insignificance. Hannah had 
told him that the removal of the bandage would be worse than the removal of the 
stitches. His uniform cap protected the wound from the sun, but David's body began 
to heat up in his dress uniform, and the memories of his trauma floated back. 
The decimation of the world's population was reflected in the workforce at GC 
headquarters. What had once been its own bustling metropolis was now a shell of 
itself. The crowds that used to consist of enthusiastic employees were now made up 
of tourists and pilgrims, necks craned to catch a glimpse of someone famous. 
In the distance David saw visitors crowded around one of the outdoor TV monitors 
that broadcast GC news twenty-four hours a day. He moseyed over and stood 
unnoticed at the back. The new Most High Reverend of Carpathianism, Leon 
Fortunato, held forth from his new office. 
David could only shake his head. Leon stood before a pulpit-type lectern, but his 
height had seemed to change. A husky, swarthy man a tick under six feet tall, Leon 
wore a long burgundy-and-navy robe that flattered his physique. But when the late 
Peter Mathews¡Xin a gaudy, silly-looking robe¡Xhad stood at the same podium, he 
had looked shorter than Leon, despite that he was several inches over six feet. Leon 
had to be standing on some sort of box or platform! 
He reported on the worldwide competition to see which locales and regions led in 
the race to complete their replicas of the Carpathia statue. Of course, the United 
Carpathian States had an insurmountable lead, but the rest of the world competed 
for second place. 
The report was dotted with feeds from all over the globe, showing how many 
communities had tried to make unique their version of the statue. Regulations 
stipulated that the replicas had to be at least life-size and monochromatic, but none 
could be as large as the original. Past that, local committees were free to exercise 
creativity. Most of the statues were black, but many were gold, some crystal, some 
fiberglass, one green, one orange, and several were twice life-size (or half the size 
of the original). Fortunato seemed particularly pleased with those two and 
announced plans to personally visit those sites. 
¡§In the interest of full disclosure, it falls to me to report that while Israel has several 
replica statues in cities as disparate as Haifa and Tel Aviv, Jerusalem has not even 

begun theirs.¡¨ Leon switched into his deep bass, solemn voice. ¡§Speaking under the 
authority of the risen potentate, I say woe! Woe and beware to the enemies of the 
lord of this globe who would thumb their noses in the face of the most high!¡¨ 
Here he switched to Uncle Leon mode, sounding like a beloved relative reading a 
bedtime story. ¡§But you know, while I have been imbued with power from on high 
to perform all the miracles that our beloved leader performs, and whereas I have 
proven this power by calling down fire from heaven to destroy the disloyal, your 
lord, His Excellency, is the embodiment of love and forgiveness and long-suffering. 
Against my counsel and better judgment, though I defer to his divine wisdom, the 
Supreme Potentate has asked me to announce that he knows he has devout followers 
in the capital of the Holy Land. Their loving lord shall not forget those loyal 
pilgrims, suffering under the insanity and subversion of the very leaders who have 
been charged with responsibility for the spiritual health of their souls. 
¡§One week from today, the object of our adoration shall personally visit his children 
in Jerusalem. He will be there not only to deal forthrightly with those who oppose 
him¡Xfor he is, besides being a loving god, a just god¡Xbut also to bless and accept 
worship and praise from the citizens otherwise without voice. 
¡§As your global pastor, let me urge the countless oppressed Carpathianists living 
under the thumb of misguided rebels in Jerusalem to bravely show your support to 
the one worthy of all honor and glory when he arrives in your home city. May it be 
a triumphal entry like none before it. Let me, on his behalf, personally guarantee 
your safety and protection against any form of retribution you might otherwise have 
suffered for your doing the right thing in the face of powerful opposition. 
¡§We know that the leadership there has a thin majority of Judah-ites and Orthodox 
Jews who risk the vengeance of their god by continuing with their suicidal lunacy. 
Unless they see the error of their ways and come on bent knee to beg forgiveness of 
their lord, new leadership will be in place before His Excellency leaves that great 
city. 
¡§And to those who swear that the temple is off-limits to the potentate himself, I say, 
dare not come against the army of the lord of hosts. He is a god of peace and 
reconciliation, but thou shalt have no other gods before him. There shall not be 
erected or allowed to stand any house of worship anywhere on this planet that does 
not recognize His Excellency as its sole object of devotion. Nicolae Carpathia, the 
potentate, is risen!¡¨ 
The crowd around the TV shouted the customary response, and David said silently, 
¡§Jesus the Christ is risen indeed.¡¨ 
Fortunato reminded the world that within two days, all statues must be completed 
and open for worship. ¡§And, as you know, the first one hundred cities with finished 
and approved units will be the first to be awarded loyalty mark application centers.¡¨ 
Leon had aides bring into view a flip chart he could reach from whatever he was 
standing on, and David noticed that as they came into view, his proximity made him 

look seven feet tall. Fortunato used a pointer to show the standard mark application 
facility. It contained a staging area, where several thousand at a time would be 
herded through crowd-control barriers, entertained by taped speeches from 
Carpathia and Fortunato. Every four minutes, a replay would show Fortunato's 
calling down fire from heaven on dissidents and Carpathia's actual resurrection. He 
paused to let the tape roll, and David had to look away. The tourists cheered the 
broadcast. 
Fortunato returned to his demonstration drawing. The citizens would feed into a 
dozen or two dozen open-air booths¡Xdepending on the size of the city and the 
crowd¡Xwhere they would be asked to decide on the design and size of their mark 
and whether they wanted it on their foreheads or the backs of their right hands. 
¡§A friendly reminder,¡¨ Fortunato said with a grin. ¡§Should you procrastinate on 
your decision or forget due to your excitement, the standard injection will be made 
on your right hand, depicting the prefix that identifies your region, next to the thin 
scar that evidences injection of the biochip. 
¡§We have been asked repeatedly how we are precluding counterfeit marks. While it 
may be impossible for any but highly skilled and trained observers to tell a fake 
mark from the real, biochip scanners cannot be fooled. We are so confident of the 
100 percent reliability of this technology that anyone whose biochip is not 
authenticated by a scanner will be subject to execution without appeal. A readable, 
implanted biochip will be required for standard trade and commerce. 
¡§And yes, we will have loyalty enforcement facilitators at every mark application 
site.¡¨ 
To David's surprise, this announcement was illustrated by footage of a huge, 
gleaming guillotine, and Fortunato actually punctuated it with a hearty laugh. ¡§I 
can't imagine any citizen of the Global Community having to worry about such a 
device, unless he or she is still mired in the cult of the Judah-ites or Orthodox 
Judaism. Frankly, only the blind or those without access to television have not seen 
the resurrection of our god and ruler, so I can't imagine skeptics remain outside 
Jerusalem. Well, as you can see,¡¨ and he laughed again, ¡§they will not remain 
long.¡¨ 
Fortunato then hefted a huge stack of letters and printouts. ¡§These, my friends, are 
applications from those who want to be first to show their loyalty to His Excellency 
by proudly having their marks applied right here in New Babylon. Any citizen from 
any region may have his or her mark applied here, though the code number will 
coincide with your home region. There is a limit to the number we can 
accommodate, so get your application in quickly or plan to have yours applied in 
your local center. 
¡§Does the application hurt? It does not. With technology so advanced and local 
anesthesia so effective, you will 'feel only the pressure of the biochip inserter. By 
the time any discomfort would have passed, the anesthetic will still be working. 

¡§Bless you, my friends, in the name of our risen lord and master, His Excellency the 
Potentate, Nicolae Carpathia.¡¨ 
Rayford returned to his bed drowsier but still unable to sleep. He spent an hour 
noodling assignments for the Force and finally concluded that Albie and Buck 
ought to go to Greece. He needed to stay for the sake of morale, and Buck needed to 
be able to expose the close-mindedness of the Carpathia regime. 
With that settled, Rayford drifted off, planning to get Buck yet another new ID from 
Zeke in the morning and assign David a little more way-paving from his perch in 
New Babylon. 
David informed the head of Food Services that Supreme Commander Hickman had 
need of the largest live pig available for Carpathia's Israel visit. Then he stopped in 
his office to check his computer before his appointment with Hannah. He found an 
urgent E-mail from Ming Toy. 
¡§I did not know whom else to write to,¡¨ she said. ¡§I was distraught to hear of your 
loss and can only pray God's strength for you. I cannot imagine your pain. 
¡§Mr. Hassid, have you seen my family since I left there? Last I heard, they had not 
seen you. I am most troubled. They have been awarded free accommodations until 
Chang has been processed for employment, and my father is thrilled beyond words. 
Mother is silent as usual, but I have heard directly from Chang, and he is desperate. 
He says the last thing he wants is to work for the GC, yet my father insists. Having 
his son serve Carpathia is the highest honor he can imagine. 
¡§Chang has heard that all employees will receive the mark within a few weeks, but 
there is a rumor that new employees hired during this time may be the first to have 
it applied. Have you heard that? Could it be true? It makes sense in its own way. 
Why hire someone without knowing up front that they are loyal? And it saves their 
losing work time later just to stand in line for their marks. 
¡§Father is insistent that Chang initiate his paperwork through Personnel 
immediately and is eager to see him among the very first to take the mark, 
especially if Father can witness this himself. Chang is ready to admit to my father 
that he is a believer in Jesus and, yes, could accurately be called a Judah-ite, but he 
is afraid of two things. One, that Father would report him, and two, that he would 
demand to know the truth about me. Trust me, Mr. Hassid; I know my father. He 
would sell us both out to prove his loyalty to Carpathia and the GC. 
¡§I am urging my brother not to admit anything to Father, and yet I do not know how 
long he can avoid being tested to the ultimate. The only way to keep from officially 
applying for work there is to run away or tell my father the truth. Can you help in 
any way? I am sorry to trouble you with this during such a terrible time for you. 
¡§Rest assured that I am praying for you. And while I assume you know this, Leah 
reports that your compatriots in the safe house are also upholding you daily. 
¡§With utmost respect and honor, your sister in Christ, Ming Toy.¡¨ 

David called Personnel. ¡§Can you give me the status on a Chang Wong?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir. Impressive resume. Mentioned publicly, at least among the brass, by 
Carpathia. A no-brainer. He's going to work here as soon as we can get him 
processed. Only question is where. I suppose you want him; everybody else does.¡¨ 
¡§Can't say for sure. Just wondering.¡¨ 
¡§Your area makes the most sense. You wouldn't turn him down, would you?¡¨ 
¡§Too early to tell, but I'm not a follower. Just because everybody wants him doesn't 
mean I should be desperate to snag him.¡¨ 
¡§True enough. But he'd be an asset.¡¨ 
¡§What's next?¡¨ 
¡§Don't know. We expected him yesterday. It's in his court. He completes the 
paperwork, makes his app official, and we make an offer.¡¨ 
¡§And if he accepts?¡¨ 
¡§He's in.¡¨ 
¡§He's not graduated high school.¡¨ 
¡§We have tutors. He could teach high school.¡¨ 
¡§When would he start?¡¨ 
¡§A few days. Delay would be because of the new freeze. You saw that, right?¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
¡§Should have it in your E-mail.¡¨ 
David didn't want to appear too eager. ¡§I'll find it. Thanks.¡¨ 
¡§You want this kid if we can get him?¡¨ 
David had to think fast. If he got him and then David and the others disappeared, the 
kid could be found out as an enemy of the state. But if their disappearance looked 
like an accident, there would be no suspicion of them or anyone they associated 
with. On the other hand, if taking the mark was prerequisite to hiring, the issue was 
moot. The kid would refuse, the father would turn him in, end of story. David would 
not be under suspicion for wanting him or spending time with him. 
¡§Would I be able to do a preliminary with him?¡¨ 
¡§Interview? Hmm. Not protocol, but I don't see the harm.¡¨ 
¡§Where's he staying?¡¨ 
¡§Four-oh-five-four.¡¨ 
That close to Hannah. Wonder if she knows? ¡§Thanks.¡¨ 
David hurried to the hospital. Hannah greeted him professionally and asked the 
typical questions about bleeding, discomfort, and pain. Then she asked him to 
follow her to a private room for removal of the stitches. 

¡§You look OK but distracted,¡¨ she said, dousing his head with disinfectant and 
soaking the bandage. 
¡§Can't imagine why,¡¨ he groused. 
¡§Sarcasm? Remember, I'm on your side.¡¨ 
¡§Did you know the Wongs are staying on your floor?¡¨ 
¡§Who are the Wongs?¡¨ 
David smacked himself in the forehead. 
¡§Terrific,¡¨ she said. ¡§So much for sterility. Close your eyes.¡¨ He obeyed and she 
doused him again. ¡§So, who are the Wongs?¡¨ 
He told her the story. 
¡§What're you going to do?¡¨ she said. 
¡§Bug their room.¡¨ 
¡§You can do that?¡¨ 
¡§I can do anything.¡¨ 
¡§I'm gathering that. But how?¡¨ 
¡§I'd tell you, but then¡X¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, I know, you'd have to kill me.¡¨ She looked embarrassed to have said that 
with his having just lost his fiancee. ¡§I'm sorry,¡¨ she whispered. 
¡§My fault,¡¨ he said. ¡§I started it.¡¨ 
She lightly tugged at the bandage, making his eyes water. ¡§Bear with me,¡¨ she said, 
squirting more liquid. 
¡§That stuff supposed to make it easier?¡¨ 
¡§We tell ourselves that,¡¨ she said. ¡§Fortunately, you had a good surgeon. Oh, yeah, 
it was me. I cut enough hair that all we're dealing with is scalp and wound and 
stitches. Imagine if there was hair too.¡¨ 
¡§I don't want to think about it.¡¨ 
¡§Think about something else and I'll hurry.¡¨ 
¡§You can't just yank it?¡¨ 
¡§Not with stitches. Those have to come out the right way. If I pull one out with the 
bandage, you're on the ceiling. Now try to get your mind on something else.¡¨ 
¡§Like what?¡¨ 
She stopped and put her wrists on her hips, careful to keep her gloved hands from 
touching anything. ¡§David, I hardly know you. How would I know what you have 
to think about?¡¨ 
He shrugged. 

¡§Think about freedom,¡¨ she said. ¡§About being away from here forever.¡¨ 
¡§You call that freedom? It's just another form of prison.¡¨ 
¡§I've been wondering about that,¡¨ she said. ¡§It has to be less tension, don't you 
think?¡¨ 
¡§Different kind, I guess. Ow!¡¨ 
¡§Sorry. Be brave. Tell me more.¡¨ 
¡§Well, we won't have to worry about who's watching and listening and whether my 
secure E-mail and phone connections have been compromised. We won't have to 
worry that we've already been found out and they're just letting us hang ourselves 
and expose others before they arrest us.¡¨ 
¡§That's what I was thinking,¡¨ she said. 
¡§But we'll never be free again. We'll be fugitives.¡¨ 
¡§So you've already ash-canned my idea.¡¨ 
¡§No, why? I assigned it to Mac and Abdullah.¡¨ 
¡§Because if it works, no one's even looking for us. We get new IDs, change our 
looks, and start over.¡¨ 
¡§But without the loyalty mark.¡¨ 
She hesitated. ¡§Well, yes, there is that. Hold on. There we go.¡¨ She held before his 
eyes the long bandage in a pair of surgical scissors. Besides disinfectant, it showed 
his blood and the imprint of his wound, two staples, and several stitches. 
¡§Can I ask you something?¡¨ he said. ¡§Totally off the subject.¡¨ 
¡§You mean may I?¡¨ 
¡§Ah, one of those. Showing off your education.¡¨ 
¡§Sorry. Incurable.¡¨ 
¡§I guess we'll need a grammar cop at the safe house, in case Tsion and Buck are out. 
Anyway, why do you people think we want to see that stuff? The yucky bandage, I 
mean.¡¨ 
¡§Yucky?¡¨ She morphed into baby talk. ¡§Does he hate to see that yucky stuff?¡¨ 
¡§Doctors and nurses are forever doing what you just did. Just remove it and toss it. 
You think I need to see it or I won't pay?¡¨ 
She shrugged. 
¡§You all must just love this stuff,¡¨ he said. ¡§That's all I can figure. By the way, you 
never said anything about staples.¡¨ 
¡§You just answered your own question.¡¨ 
¡§I'm lost.¡¨ 
¡§I showed you so you know what's next. The stitches are separate, so they come out 

individually. It's not one of those deals where I cut or untie and then the whole thing 
just sort of tickles as it comes looping out. It won't hurt, but there are several. And 
there are two staples that have to stay in till the stitches are out, just in case, to hold 
everything together. When the stitches are gone, I'll know whether the scar can 
contain that big brain of yours. Then I have to get under each of those two staples, 
one at a time, with a wire cutter.¡¨ 
¡§You're joking.¡¨ 
¡§No, sir. I cut through the staple¡X¡¨ 
¡§Ouch.¡¨ 
¡§Not if you don't flinch.¡¨ 
¡§You're the one who'd better not flinch.¡¨ 
¡§I'm good. I promise. Then I grip each remaining end, that would be two for each 
staple, and slowly curl it out.¡¨ 
¡§That's got to hurt.¡¨ 
She hesitated. 
¡§I needed a real fast 'Not at all' right there.¡¨ 
¡§I admit you'll feel it more than the stitches. It's a bigger invasion, thus a busier 
evacuation.¡¨ 
¡§A busier evacuation? You could be in management.¡¨ 
¡§What should I say? The big, yucky staple displaced more tissue than the itty-bitty 
stitchies. If any of the scar tissue adhered to the metal, you may feel it give way.¡¨ 
¡§I don't like the sound of 'give way.' ¡¨ 
¡§What a wuss! It won't even bleed. And if I feel it's too early and it would cause 
trauma, we'll put it off.¡¨ 
¡§Not unless it would kill me. I mean it, Hannah. I want to be done with this.¡¨ 
¡§You don't want any reason to have to come back and talk to me.¡¨ 
¡§It's not that.¡¨ 
¡§No,¡¨ she said dismissively, obviously feigning insult. ¡§I can take it. I don't know 
any other believers with reasons to come around, but that's all right. Just leave me 
here to suffer alone.¡¨ 
¡§Get on with it.¡¨ 
¡§Shut up and I will. Now think about something else.¡¨ 
¡§Can you talk while you work?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, sure. I told you I was good.¡¨ 
¡§Then tell me your story while you do this.¡¨ 

¡§Story's longer than the procedure, David.¡¨ 
¡§Then take your time.¡¨ 
¡§Now there! That was a sweet thing to say.¡¨ 
THIRTEEN 
Hannah Palemoon's story actually took David's mind off what she was doing. And 
she did take her time, pausing between each stitch. She teased him by showing him 
the first, but his look stopped her. 
She had been raised on a Cherokee reservation in what was now known as the 
United North American States. ¡§You wouldn't believe the misconceptions about 
Native Americans,¡¨ she said. 
¡§Never been to the States, even when it was just the United States of America. But I 
read about it. They called you Indians because of Columbus's mistake.¡¨ 
¡§Exactly. He thinks he's in the West Indies, so we must be Indians. Now it's Indian 
this, Indian that. Indian tribes. Cowboys and Indians. Indian nation. Indian 
reservation. The Indian problem. American Indians¡Xthat was my favorite. And of 
course, anyone who hadn't visited the reservation assumed we lived in tepees.¡¨ 
¡§That's what I would have guessed,¡¨ David said. ¡§From pictures.¡¨ 
¡§The pictures are from the tourist sites. They want to see old Native American 
culture; we're happy to show it. Dress in the old garb, dance the old dances, sell 'em 
anything they want made from colorful beads. They didn't want to see our real 
homes.¡¨ 
¡§Not tepees, I take it.¡¨ 
¡§Just like any other depressed economy. Multifamily units, tiny houses, house 
trailers. And the tourists didn't want to know that my dad was a mechanic and my 
mom worked in the office of a plumbing company. They'd rather believe we were 
part of a raiding party, drank firewater, or worked in a casino.¡¨ 
¡§Your parents really didn't?¡¨ 
¡§My mother liked to play the slots. Dad lost a pay-check one night playing 
blackjack. Never went back.¡¨ 
¡§And you were a vet.¡¨ 
¡§Vet's assistant, that's all. My uncle, my mother's brother, was self trained. Didn't 
have to be licensed or certified or any of that other stuff, like on the outside. Unless 
you wanted business from the outside, and he didn't. And he wasn't into weird stuff 
either. Tourists asked if he danced and chanted and brought dead pets back to life. 
He was a good reader, read everything he could find on patching up animals, 

because he loved them and there were so many of them.¡¨ 
¡§You didn't want to be a vet?¡¨ 
¡§Nope. I read all the books about Clara Barton and Florence Nightingale. Did well 
in school, especially science, and was encouraged by a teacher to take advantage of 
opportunities for Native Americans at state universities. Went to Arizona State and 
never looked back. Cost me more because I wasn't from Arizona, but I wanted 
distance between me and the reservation.¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ 
¡§I wasn't ashamed or anything. I just thought I had more opportunity outside. And I 
did.¡¨ 
¡§Where did you hear about God?¡¨ 
¡§Everywhere. There were Christians on the reservation. We weren't churchgoers, 
but we knew a lot who were. That teacher used to talk to me about Jesus. I wasn't 
interested. She called it 'witnessing,' and that sounded way too weird for me. Then 
at university. They were everywhere. You could get witnessed to walking to class.¡¨ 
¡§Never intrigued you?¡¨ 
¡§Not enough to go to any meetings. I was afraid I would wind up in a cult or a 
multilevel-marketing scheme. The big thing with those kids was getting people to 
admit they were sinners and that they couldn't do anything about their sin. Tell you 
the truth, I never felt like a sinner. Not then.¡¨ 
¡§So, wrong approach for you.¡¨ 
¡§Not their fault. I was a sinner, of course. I was just blind to it.¡¨ 
¡§What finally made the difference?¡¨ 
¡§When I found out who disappeared in the vanishings, I was mad. Those 
churchgoers I knew. Christians from university. My high school teacher.¡¨ 
¡§So you must have had an inkling.¡¨ 
¡§An inkling? I knew. People were saying God did this, and I believed them. And I 
hated him for it. I thought about those people and how sincere and devout they 
were, how they cared enough for me to tell me something that made me think they 
were strange. I didn't want any part of a God who would remove them and leave me 
here. I wanted a hero, someone to believe in, but not him. Then I saw all the news 
about Carpathia. The Bible talks about how so many will be deceived? I was at the 
top of the list. Bought the whole package. Found put he needed medical people, 
hopped the next plane to New York. Wasn't so sure about moving on to this 
beautiful, godforsaken desert, but I was still loyal then. 
¡§I started getting squirrelly about Carpathia when he started sounding like a 
politician, trying to put everything in the best light. He never seemed genuinely 
remorseful about all the chaos and the loss. I didn't agree with him when he said all 

this proved that God couldn't have been behind the disappearances, because why 
would a loving God do that? I believed God had done it, and it proved he wasn't so 
loving after all.¡¨ 
Hannah finished her stitch-removal work, stripped off and discarded her rubber 
gloves, washed and dried her hands, and pulled on another pair of gloves. She sat on 
a stool next to David. ¡§Still have the staples, but we can both use a break.¡¨ 
¡§Somebody had to lead you to God. I'm dying to know where you met another 
believer here.¡¨ 
¡§Didn't know there was one till I saw your mark plain as day as you lay there on the 
ground. I tried wiping it off, then almost danced when I realized what it was. I 
couldn't see mine and had never seen another, just read about it.¡¨ 
¡§Where?¡¨ 
¡§Remember when we were told that Tsion Ben-Judah's Web site was contraband?¡¨ 
'¡§Course.¡¨ 
¡§That was all I needed to hear. I was there. It was all Greek to me until he predicted 
the earthquake. First, it happened. Second, my whole reservation was swallowed up. 
Lost everybody. Mom, Dad, two little brothers, extended family. I'll bet we were 
one of the only places in the world that had no survivors. Zero.¡¨ 
¡§Wow.¡¨ 
¡§You can imagine how I felt. Grief-stricken. Alone. Angry. Amazed that the weird 
guy on the Net got it right.¡¨ 
¡§Can't imagine that convincing you, though. Seems you would have been madder 
than ever at God.¡¨ 
¡§In a way, I was. But I really began to see the light about Nicolae. You were here 
then, right? You heard the rumors.¡¨ 
David nodded. 
¡§People said he bullied his way onto a chopper on the roof of the old headquarters 
building¡Xwhich I have no problem with. I probably would have done the same. 
Self-preservation instinct and all that. But no calls for help. No orders for more 
rescue craft. People hanging on the struts of his chopper, screaming, pleading for 
their lives. He orders the pilot off the roof. Probably couldn't have saved anybody 
anyway, the way the thing went down. But you've got to try, don't you? Isn't that 
true leadership? 
¡§Then he was phony again. The remorse didn't ring true. I just started doing my job 
and forgetting my idealism, but I couldn't tear myself away from the Ben-Judah site. 
Then millions and millions joined in, and so many of them became believers. I read 
about the mark of the sealed believer, and I was envious. I wasn't sure I wanted in 
yet, but I wanted to be part of some family. 

¡§But you know what got to me about Tsion? Listen to me, calling a man like that by 
his first name. But that's just it. He's clearly one of the most brilliant scholars ever 
born. But he had a way of putting the cookies on the lower shelf for people like me. 
I understood what he was saying. He made it plain and clear. And he was 
transparent. He lost his whole family in a worse way than I did. 
¡§He was so loving! You could sense it, feel it right through the computer. He prayed 
for people, ministered to them the way the best doctors do.¡¨ 
¡§And that was what finally persuaded you?¡¨ 
¡§Actually, no. I believed he was sincere, and I came to believe he was right. But all 
of a sudden I went scientific on him. I was going to take this slow, not rush into 
anything, study it carefully. Well, he starts predicting these plagues, and here they 
come. Didn't take me long after that. People suffered. These were real. And he knew 
they were coming.¡¨ 
¡§Did you ever see yourself as a sinner?¡¨ 
She stood and found the small wire cutters. 
¡§Uh-oh,¡¨ David said. 
¡§Just relax. Listen to the nice lady's story.¡¨ She gently pressed her fingers on each 
side of the staple and eased the cutting edge of the clippers in. With both hands she 
forced the handles together, and the staple broke with a snap. 
David jumped. 
¡§You still with us?¡¨ she said. 
¡§Didn't feel a thing. Just scared me.¡¨ 
¡§Story of my life.¡¨ She snapped the other while continuing. ¡§Tsion warned us¡Xyou 
know this; surely you're part of the readership.¡¨ 
David nodded. ¡§I've spoken to him by phone.¡¨ 
¡§You have not!¡¨ 
He nodded. 
¡§Don't nod with loose staples in your head. And if you lie to me again, I'll twist 'em 
for you.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not lying.¡¨ 
¡§I know you're not. That's what makes me so jealous.¡¨ 
¡§You know you're going to get to meet him someday.¡¨ 
¡§Better bring a mop and bucket. You can just squeegee me off the floor and pour 
me down the drain.¡¨ 
¡§Me too.¡¨ 
¡§But you know him already! You're best buds.¡¨ 

¡§Just by phone.¡¨ 
She mimicked him. ¡§Just by phone. Blah, blah, blah. Yeah, we talk. He calls once in 
a while. 'How ya doin', Dave? Just finished my message.' ¡¨ 
David had to laugh and quickly realized it was the first time since . . . 
¡§Anyway,¡¨ she continued, pulling the ends of one staple neatly from his scalp. 
¡§See? Good timing, good technique. Uh-oh, do I see brain oozing there? Nope. 
Must be empty.¡¨ 
David shook his head. ¡§The story, Hannah.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, yeah. Tsion promises us that if we start reading the Bible, it'll be like a mirror 
to us and we might not like what we see. Remember that?¡¨ 
¡§Do I?¡¨ 
The other staple came out just as easily. She made a show of presenting it to him, 
and he waved it away. ¡§I didn't have a Bible and you don't exactly see them lying 
around here anywhere. But Tsion had that site where you could call up the whole 
Bible in your language. Well, not Cherokee, but you know. So I'm reading the Bible 
on the Net in the wee hours.¡¨ 
¡§And couldn't get enough of it?¡¨ 
¡§Urn, no. I did it wrong. I didn't read his little guide on where to start and what to 
look for. I just started in at the beginning and I loved all those stories in Genesis, but 
when I got into Exodus, and then¡Xwhat's the next one?¡¨ 
¡§Leviticus.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah. Ugh! I'm wondering, where's the mirror? I don't like what I'm seeing, all 
right, but it's no mirror. Finally, I go into his site where you can ask questions. Only 
a million people a day do that. I didn't expect him to answer personally, of course, 
and he didn't. Probably was on the phone with his pal Dave. But somebody pointed 
me to that guide place. I start with John and then Romans and then Matthew. Talk 
about desperate for more and seeing yourself! My besetting sin, the way Tsion 
described it, was pride. I was my own god. Captain of my own destiny. I got to that 
Romans Road thing, taking you down the path of being born in sin, separated from 
God, his gift is eternal life . . . man, I was there. Stayed up all night and didn't even 
feel the effects working a full shift the next day. Wanted to tell everybody, but 
wanted to stay alive too.¡¨ 
Hannah doused David's head with disinfectant and dabbed it dry with a clean towel. 
¡§I'm going to cover you with Betadyne now, friend, so you don't look like a skunk 
with a lateral stripe. You'll still look funny, but not from so far away. And we'd 
better get out of here before they send in a search party.¡¨ 
¡§Just a minute.¡¨ 
¡§Hmm?¡¨ She was dabbing at his head again. 

¡§Just wanted to thank you. I needed to hear that. Those stories never get old.¡¨ 
¡§Thanks, David. Can you imagine how long I've wanted to tell someone that? Oh, 
and one more thing.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah?¡¨ 
¡§Say hey to Tsion for me?¡¨ 
¡§You don't either,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I do too!¡¨ Zeke said. ¡§C'mere, look.¡¨ 
Buck followed Zeke to his room, turning to give Rayford and Chloe a do-youbelieve-
this? look. Sure enough, just as Zeke had claimed, hanging in his closet 
were four soiled, wrinkled GC uniforms. ¡§Where in the world?¡¨ 
¡§After that horsemen deal,¡¨ Zeke said, ¡§remember?¡¨ Buck nodded. ¡§Dead GC all 
over the place. Dad cruised me around in the middle of the night, trying to stay 
ahead of the recovery teams. I didn't like yankin' clothes off dead bodies, but Dad 
and me both thought they were gifts from God. I got their IDs and everything, but 
you can't use the same name as goes with the uniform.¡¨ 
¡§I can't?¡¨ 
Zeke sighed. ¡§These guys turned up missin'. Unless somebody identified their naked 
bodies, they're listed as AWOL or unaccounted for. You show up with their name, 
rank, and serial number, who do you think they're gonna pin the murder on? Or the 
swipin' of the uni?¡¨ 
¡§I get it.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, huh?¡¨ 
¡§So, what do you do, put a new name patch on? Make a new ID?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, only I mix and match. Well, here, first see if this one fits. It's the biggest I 
got.¡¨ 
¡§I can see already it's going to be short.¡¨ 
¡§But look at the cuffs in the shirt, the pants, and the jacket. They leave lots of hem 
in 'em so they won't have to make custom-made duds for everybody.¡¨ 
¡§You do tailoring work too, Zeke?¡¨ 
¡§Not in front of everybody, and I don't brag on it, but yeah. I do everything. Fullservice 
shop.¡¨ 
Buck found the trousers about two inches short and the waist snug. The shirt was 
close but needed another inch in the sleeves. Same with the jacket. The cap was way 
too small. Buck shook his head when Zeke rummaged around and found his sewing 
kit. It was all he could do to keep from bursting out laughing when the big kid 
popped a half dozen straight pins in his mouth and knelt to do his work. 
¡§What do you mean, you mix and match?¡¨ 

¡§Well,¡¨ Zeke said around the pins, ¡§your ID is probably gonna be from a dead 
civilian. You've already done your own facial surgery, not on purpose, but you did. 
I'll dye your hair dark, use dark contacts, and shoot a picture to go with the new 
papers. You want to find someone you like? You've seen my files before. You 
pulled Greg North out of that stack. Grab a few. Pick someone about your same size 
and everything. The less I have to change, the better.¡¨ 
¡§Can you give me a rank above Albie's?¡¨ 
¡§No can do,¡¨ Zeke said. ¡§See the shoulders and the collar on that jacket? That's your 
basic Peacekeeper. If your collar had another stripe or two and stuck straight up 
instead of layin' flat, you could be as high as a commander.¡¨ 
¡§And you can't do that much tailoring.¡¨ 
¡§That's big-time work. I'd hafta charge you double.¡¨ 
Buck smiled, but Zeke roared. ¡§Did you almost check your wallet to see if you 
could handle it?¡¨ 
¡§Almost.¡¨ 
¡§Dad says I'm a card.¡¨ Zeke was suddenly sober. 
¡§Know where your dad is yet?¡¨ 
Zeke shook his head. ¡§Didn't like what I saw on TV, though. Something about 
startin' that mark thing with guys they've got behind bars already. Use 'em as test 
cases.¡¨ He shook his head. 
¡§Your dad won't take the mark.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I know that. No way. Never. Which means I'll probably never see him again.¡¨ 
¡§Don't think that way, Zeke. There's always hope.¡¨ 
¡§Well, maybe, and I'm prayin'. But I'll tell ya when there's no more hope, and that's 
when they line these guys up for the mark. They get a choice, right?¡¨ 
¡§That's what I understand.¡¨ 
¡§Dad won't even think about it. He's already got a mark. I've seen his and he's seen 
mine¡Xthat's how we know. And he won't start wonderin' if he can have both and 
stay alive. He'd never do a thing that looks like he's a Carpathia guy. He'll say, 'No 
you don't,' and they'll thump 'im right there. I don't know how they're gonna kill 'em 
in jails, whether they've got gill-o-teens or if they just shoot 'em. But that's how 
Dad's gettin' out of jail. In a box.¡¨ 
On the way back to his office, David felt strangely warmed and encouraged. He 
loved Hannah's personality and way of expressing herself. She would be a good 
friend. She was older than he but didn't act like it. He had begun to wonder if there 
was an oasis of good feeling anywhere. 
David worked his magic on the computer, patching in to the bug in room 4054. He 
slipped on earphones and found himself in the middle of a heated argument. He 

heard the television and Mrs. Wong pleading, ¡§Shh! TV! Shh! TV!¡¨ 
Her husband shouted back in Chinese. David knew there were many dialects, but he 
didn't understand even one. It soon became clear that father and son were arguing 
and that the mother wanted to watch television. The only words David could make 
out from the males were an occasional GC and Carpathia. The son was soon in 
tears, the father berating him. 
David recorded the conversation in the unlikely event he could download voiceactivated 
software that would not only recognize the language and the dialect, but 
would also convert it to English or Hebrew, his two languages. 
Suddenly he heard the father speak more harshly than ever, the son pleading and¡Xit 
sounded like¡Xcollapsing in tears. The mother pleaded for quiet again, the father 
barked at her, and then it sounded to David as if someone picked up a phone and 
punched buttons. Finally, English! 
¡§Missah Akbar, you speak Chinese? . . . Pakistani? Me no. English OK, OK? . . . 
Yes, Wong! Question for you. New worker get loyalty mark first, yah? . . . OK! 
How soon? . . . Not till then? . . . Maybe sooner, OK! Mrs. Wong and me get too? 
OK? Son, Chang Wong, want be first to get mark.¡¨ 
The boy cried out in Chinese, and it sounded as if Mr. Wong covered the phone 
before screaming at him. Someone left the room, David assumed Chang, and 
slammed a door. 
¡§Missah Akbar, you do mark on boy, mother, father? . . . You no do? Who? . . . 
Moon? Walter Moon? . . . Not Moon himself? . . .Moon people, OK! Son first! 
Picture! Take picture son! . . . When? . . . Yes. I talk to Moon people. Bye-bye.¡¨ 
David heard Mr. Wong call out something more calmly, and then something from 
Chang, muffled. The father was angry again and had the last word. Then he 
whispered something in Chinese to his wife. She responded with what sounded like 
resignation. 
David wondered if Chang had told his father why he would refuse the mark, or if he 
simply said no. When the apartment was silent except for the television, David 
saved the file and forwarded it to Ming Toy with a request. ¡§If it's not too much 
trouble or too painful, it would help me to know what was said here. I'm guessing 
your father is pressuring Chang to get himself hired and to be among the first to 
take the mark. I'll try other sources inside to see how soon they're going to start 
administering the mark, but help me with this at your earliest convenience, if you 
would. I regret eavesdropping, but I'm sure you want to preclude this disaster too.¡¨ 
David dialed 4054. Mr. Wong answered. ¡§Chang, please?¡¨ 
¡§You want Chang Wong?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, please.¡¨ 
¡§Talk to him about GC job?¡¨ 

¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ 
¡§You Mr. Moon?¡¨ 
¡§No. David Hassid. I met you last week.¡¨ 
¡§Yes! Mr. Hassid! Chang work for you?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know yet. That's what I'd like to talk to him about.¡¨ 
¡§He here. You talk to him. You in computers, yes?¡¨ 
¡§Much of my area is computers, yes.¡¨ 
¡§He best. He help you! Work for you. You talk to him. Wait. . . Chang!¡¨ He 
switched to Chinese, and the boy argued from the other room. Finally he came to 
the phone. 
¡§Hello,¡¨ the boy said, sounding as if he'd lost his best friend. 
¡§Chang, it's David. Just listen. Your sister told me what was going on. Let me try to 
help. It will get your father off your back if you get interviewed by a director, 
right?¡¨ 
¡§Yes.¡¨ 
¡§It'll buy us some time. You don't worry, OK?¡¨ 
¡§I'll try not to.¡¨ 
¡§Don't say anything, but we might even find a way to. get you out of here.¡¨ 
¡§Before the mark?¡¨ 
¡§Don't say that, Chang. Just play along for now. Understand?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, David.¡¨ 
¡§Call me Mr. Hassid, OK? We can't sound like friends, and we sure don't want to 
sound like fellow believers, brothers, right?¡¨ 
¡§Right, Mr. Hassid.¡¨ 
¡§Thataboy, Chang. Let's do this right. You call my assistant tomorrow and arrange 
for an appointment with me. I'll tell Tiffany to expect your call, and you tell her I 
asked you to call her. All right?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Everything will be all right, Chang.¡¨ 
¡§I hope so.¡¨ 
¡§You can trust me.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, Mr. Hassid.¡¨ 
FOURTEEN 

Rayford and the others were invited to listen in as Tsion grilled his former professor 
and mentor on the history of God's chosen people. Chaim, with the wire finally out 
of his mouth, slowly worked his jaw and rubbed his face, clearly relieved. He was 
not animated, however, and hard as it seemed Tsion tried, Chaim appeared still 
tormented by the same things he had discussed with Rayford a few nights before. 
¡§Come, come, Chaim!¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§This is exciting, dramatic, miraculous stuff. 
This is the greatest story ever told! I know where God has provided a place of 
refuge for his children, but I am not going to tell you until you are ready. You must 
be prepared in case God calls you to be a warrior for the Lord, to go into a battle of 
words and wit. Your knowledge would help carry you, but God would have to be 
your strength. I believe that if he confirms in your heart that you shall be his vessel, 
he will empower you with supernatural abilities to fight the satanic miracles of 
Antichrist. Can you envision the victory, my friend? How I wish I were the one 
going!¡¨ 
¡§How I wish that too,¡¨ Chaim said. 
¡§No, no! If you are God's man in God's time, you must never want out of this most 
sacred duty and calling! The history of this country carries much discussion of a 
manifest destiny. Well, my brother, if ever a people had a manifest destiny, it is our 
people! Yours and mine! And now we include our Gentile brothers who are grafted 
into the branch because of their belief in Messiah and his work of grace and 
sacrifice and forgiveness on the cross. Jesus is Messiah! Jesus is the Christ! He is 
risen!¡¨ 
¡§He is risen indeed,¡¨ Chaim said, but he did not match Tsion's energy. 
¡§Do you hear yourself?¡¨ Tsion mimicked Chaim, mumbling, ¡§He-is-risen-indeed. 
No! He is risen, indeed! Amen! Praise the Lord! Hallelujah! You could go to 
Jerusalem, a leader of men, a conqueror! You would stand up to the lying, 
blaspheming enemy of the Lord Most High. You would expose Antichrist to the 
world as the evil man indwelt by Satan and rally the devout believers to repel the 
mark of the beast! 
¡§Oh, Chaim, Chaim! You are learning so much. That old brain is still good, still 
facile, still receptive. You are getting this¡XI know you are! If not you, who shall 
go? You seem uniquely qualified, but much as I dream it, I cannot presume to make 
this assignment. How I wish I were the one and could be there in person to see it! If 
it is you, I will want every detail. Should the forces of evil come against you and 
you should be overwhelmed by the power of the enemy, God would provide a way, 
a place, and you, you my friend, would lead the people to that place. And the Lord 
God himself would protect you and care for you and watch over you and provide for 
you. Do you realize, Chaim, that God has promised that it will be as in the days of 
old? Think of it! Weak and frail and wicked as they were, unfaithful, ignorant, 
impatient, and dallying with other gods, the God of the universe himself catered to 

the children of Israel. 
¡§Do you understand what that means? You could lead your people, his people, to a 
place that will be almost impossible to go into or out from. If you were to be there 
until the Glorious Appearing of the Christ, what would you eat? What would you 
wear? The Bible says God himself will provide as he did in the days of old! He will 
send food, delicious, nourishing, fulfilling food! Manna from heaven! And do you 
know about your clothes?¡¨ 
¡§No, Tsion,¡¨ Chaim said wearily, a tease in his voice, ¡§whatever you do, do not 
neglect to tell me about my clothes.¡¨ 
¡§I won't! And you will be grateful, not to mention amazed. If I amaze you, will you 
admit it?¡¨ 
¡§I will admit it.¡¨ 
¡§Promise me.¡¨ 
¡§My word is my bond, my excitable young friend. Amaze me and I will say so.¡¨ 
¡§Your clothes will not wear out!¡¨ Tsion stopped with A flourish, his hands in the 
air. 
¡§They won't?¡¨ 
¡§Are you amazed?¡¨ 
¡§Maybe. Tell me more.¡¨ 
¡§Now you want to hear it?¡¨ 
¡§I always want to hear it, Tsion. I am just unworthy. Scared to death, unqualified, 
unprepared, and unworthy.¡¨ 
¡§If God calls you, you shall be none of those! You would be Moses! The Lord God 
of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob would go before you, and the glory of the Lord would 
be your rear guard.¡¨ 
¡§I would need a rear guard? Who would be chasing me?¡¨ 
¡§Not Pharaoh's army, I assure you. But if it were, God would make a way for you to 
escape. Carpathia's hordes would be pursuing you. And for all his talk of peace and 
disarmament, who has access to the residue of the world's weapons, surrendered 
willingly to the lying purveyor of peace? But if you needed the Red Sea parted yet 
again, God would do it! For what have we learned, my little Hebrew schoolchild?¡¨ 
¡§Hmm?¡¨ 
¡§Hmm? Don't hmm? me, Chaim! Tell the rabbi what you learned about the great 
stories, the miracles from the Torah.¡¨ 
¡§That they are not just stories, not just examples, myths for our encouragement.¡¨ 
¡§Excellent. But rather, what are they? What are they, my star pupil?¡¨ 
¡§Truth.¡¨ 

¡§Truth! Yes!¡¨ 
¡§They actually happened.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, Chaim! They happened because God is all-powerful. He says they 
happened¡Xthey happened. And if he says he will do it again, what?¡¨ 
¡§He will.¡¨ 
¡§He will! Oh, the privilege, Chaim! Deal with your fears. Deal with your doubts. 
Give them to God. Offer yourself in all your weakness, because in our weakness we 
are made strong. Moses was weak. Moses was nobody. Moses had a speech 
impediment! Chaim! Moses, the hero of our faith, had less to offer than you do!¡¨ 
¡§He was not a murderer.¡¨ 
¡§Yes he was! You forget! Did he not kill a man? Chaim, think! Your mind, your 
conscience, your heart tells you God cannot forgive you. I know the guilt is fresh. I 
know it is grievous. But you know, down deep, that God's grace is greater than our 
sin. It has to be! Otherwise we all live in vain! Is anything too hard for God? 
Anything too big for him? Any sin too great for him to forgive? It would be 
blasphemy to say so. Chaim! If you are the one who can commit a sin too great for 
God to forgive, you are above God. That's how we can wallow in our sin and still be 
guilty of pride. Who do we think we are, the only ones God cannot reach with his 
gift of love? 
¡§He found you, Chaim! He pulled you from the miry clay! Humble yourself in the 
sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up!¡¨ 
¡§Back to my clothes,¡¨ Chaim said. ¡§I could wear clothes from now until Jesus 
comes again, and they wouldn't wear out?¡¨ 
Tsion sat back and waved dismissively. ¡§Chaim, if he can save you and me, of all 
people, forgive us our sins, bring us back from spiritual death, this clothes thing is 
one of his lesser miracles. Forget the extra buttons, the patches, the thread. Go there 
with something you like, because you'll still be wearing it when this is all over.¡¨ 
David had pushed the limits of his ability to virtually set up the entire GC 
compound for his own remote computer monitoring. He breathed a prayer of thanks 
to God for allowing him to focus and work in spite of his grief. Mac and Abdullah 
were set to visit him in an hour to finalize the escape plan that included David and 
Hannah, and all four had agreed to carefully watch for believers they had been 
unaware of. It was already apparent that the brilliant teenager, Chang Wong, might 
be tagging along. David just had to figure out how to pull it off. 
While waiting word from Ming Toy, David checked his archives for meetings he 
had recorded but never listened to. In his Carpathia file was the one with Suhail 
Akbar, Walter Moon, Leon Fortunato, and Jim Hickman the day he himself had 
chatted with Hickman. David felt a chill as he prepared to eavesdrop, and he did a 
quick walk-through of his area to make sure everyone was gone for the day. He 
could close a program and shut down with a single keystroke, but still he didn't 

want to be surprised by the wrong person. 
Something Hannah had asked a few days before haunted him too. She had said, 
¡§How do you know there isn't someone just as technically astute as you are who is 
doing exactly what you're doing?¡¨ 
¡§Such as? ¡¨he had said. 
¡§Monitoring you, maybe.¡¨ 
He had brushed it off. He had developed antihacking programs, antibugging 
devices. He had electronic ears everywhere and believed he could hear if someone 
breathed a word of something like that. It was impossible, wasn't it? Surely the 
brass wouldn't be so free to speak if they thought he was listening in. And if they 
were onto him, it seemed they would have shut him down long before this. 
David believed the security chips he'd inserted in his phones and E-mail programs 
were impenetrable, and he had tried to explain it to Hannah. 
¡§I don't pretend to have a clue, David. Maybe you are the top computer genius alive, 
but ought you not be very careful?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I am.¡¨ 
¡§You are?¡¨ 
¡§You bet.¡¨ 
¡§But you tell me of phone calls and E-mails between you and your compatriots in 
the States.¡¨ 
¡§Not traceable. Not hackable.¡¨ 
¡§But you trace others. You hack others.¡¨ 
¡§I'm good.¡¨ 
¡§You're living on the edge.¡¨ 
¡§There's no other way to live.¡¨ 
Hannah had dropped it with a shrug. He believed the only reason she raised the 
issue was because she cared, and she was, after all, a civilian when it came to 
technology. But he almost wished she hadn't planted the seed of curiosity in his 
mind. With every message, every transmission, every phone call, he got the 
niggling feeling that someone somewhere could be looking over his shoulder. 
Everything he knew told him it couldn't be, but there was no accounting for 
intuition. He ran continuous checks on his programs, searched for intruders. So far 
so good, but Hannah had spooked him. If nothing else, it would keep him on his 
toes. 
David had begun the Carpathia meeting recording before he went to see Hickman, 
so he discovered several minutes of Carpathia alone in his office. The last time he 
had listened in that way he had heard Nicolae praying to Lucifer. Now, Nicolae was 
Lucifer. Did Satan pray to himself? 

No, but he did talk to himself. At first David merely marveled at the fidelity of the 
sound. He had merely arranged a simple intercom system to both transmit and 
receive, based on his commands, but it worked better than he had hoped. He heard 
when Nicolae sighed, cleared his throat, or even hummed. That was the strangest 
part. Here was a man who apparently did not sleep. Yet he seemed to exude energy, 
even when alone. David heard movement, walking, things being arranged. In the 
background he heard the workers he had encountered just outside Carpathia's office. 
¡§Hmm,¡¨ Carpathia said softly, as if thinking. ¡§Mirrors. I need mirrors.¡¨ He 
chuckled. ¡§Why deprive myself of the joy others luxuriate in? They get to look at 
me whenever they want.¡¨ 
He pushed the intercom button and his assistant answered immediately. 
¡§Excellency?¡¨ Sandra said. 
¡§Is that foreman still out there?¡¨ 
¡§He is, Lordship. Would you like to speak with him?¡¨ 
¡§No, just pass along a message. Better yet, step in a moment.¡¨ 
¡§My pleasure,¡¨ she said, as if she meant it with all of her being. Sandra had always 
seemed so cold and bored to David that he wondered how she interacted with 
Carpathia. She was more than twenty years his senior. David heard the squeak of a 
chair, as if Carpathia had sat. 
Simultaneous with a soft knock, the door opened and closed. ¡§Your Excellency,¡¨ 
she said, to the sound of rustling. 
¡§Sandra,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§you need not kneel every time you¡X¡¨ 
¡§Pardon me, sir,¡¨ she said, ¡§but I beg of you not to deprive me the privilege.¡¨ 
¡§Well, of course not, if you wish, but¡X¡¨ 
¡§I know you don't require it, sir, but to me it is a privilege to worship you.¡¨ 
He sighed without a trace of impatience, David thought. 
¡§What a beautiful sentiment,¡¨ he said at last. ¡§I accept your devotion with deep 
satisfaction.¡¨ 
¡§What may I do for you, my lord?¡¨ she said. ¡§Do me the honor of asking anything 
of me.¡¨ 
¡§Merely that I want several full-length mirrors in the remodeled office. I will leave 
it to those in charge of such matters to position them, but I believe it would add a 
nice touch.¡¨ 
¡§I couldn't agree more, sir. I shiver at the thought of multiple images of you in 
here.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, well, I thank you. Run along and deliver that message now.¡¨ 
¡§Right away, sir.¡¨ 

¡§And then you may go for the day.¡¨ 
¡§But your meeting¡X¡¨ 
¡§I will welcome them. Do not feel obligated.¡¨ 
¡§As you wish, sir, but you know I would be more than happy¡X¡¨ 
¡§I know.¡¨ 
The door opened and shut, and it sounded as if Carpathia rose once more. Just loud 
enough for David to hear he said, ¡§I too shiver at the thought of multiple images of 
me, you homely old wench. But you do know how to make a man feel worshiped.¡¨ 
Now it sounded as if he was moving chairs into position. ¡§Akbar, Fortunato, 
Hickman, Moon. No, Moon, Akbar, ah ... must let Leon wonder about his proximity 
and access, keep him nimble. Hickman needs assurances. All right.¡¨ 
Back to his intercom. ¡§Are you still out there, Sandra?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Before you go, get Mr. McCullum on the phone for me, please.¡¨ 
David froze, then chastised himself. He didn't care that Nicolae communicated with 
Mac. If David couldn't trust Mac, he couldn't trust anyone. 
¡§Captain McCullum,¡¨ Carpathia said a few minutes later. ¡§How good to speak with 
you. You are aware, are you not, that 10 percent of all weapons of war were ceded 
to the Global Community when we were known as the United Nations? . . . The rest 
were destroyed, and I am satisfied that our monitoring has confirmed that this was 
largely carried out. If any munitions remain, they are few and are likely in the hands 
of factions so small as to pose little threat. My question to you is, do you know 
where we stockpiled the armaments we received? . . . You had nothing to do with 
that? . . . Well, yes, of course / know, Captain! The question is merely probative. 
You are former military, you are a pilot, and you get around. I want to know if the 
word has leaked out where we inventory our weapons. . . . Good. That is all, 
Captain.¡¨ 
Clearly, Mac had told Nicolae he had no idea where the weapons were. As far as 
David knew, that was the truth. But what a massive operation that had to have been, 
and how was it pulled off without word getting out? And what might Carpathia be 
planning now? 
¡§Gentlemen!¡¨ Carpathia said a few minutes later, welcoming the four visitors. 
¡§Please, come in.¡¨ 
¡§Allow me to be the first to kneel before you,¡¨ Leon said, ¡§and kiss your hands.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you, Reverend, but you are hardly the first.¡¨ 
¡§I meant at this meeting,¡¨ Fortunato whined. 
¡§And he won't be the last!¡¨ Hickman said, and David actually heard the smack of 
his lips. 

¡§Thank you, Supreme Commander. Thank you. Chief Akbar? Thank you. Chief 
Moon? My thanks. Oh, Reverend, no, please. I would appreciate it if you would sit 
here.¡¨ 
¡§Here?¡¨ Leon said, clearly surprised. 
¡§A problem?¡¨ 
¡§I will sit anywhere His Excellency wishes, of course. I would even stand, if you 
asked.¡¨ 
¡§I'd kneel for the whole meeting,¡¨ Hickman said. 
¡§Right here, my friend,¡¨ Carpathia said, devoting much time and energy to putting 
people where he wanted them. 
¡§Sir?¡¨ Leon began when they were settled. ¡§Have you been able to sleep, get some 
rest?¡¨ 
¡§You are worried about me, Reverend?¡¨ 
¡§Of course, Excellency.¡¨ 
¡§Sleep is for mortals, my friend.¡¨ 
¡§Well spoken, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sure mortal, boys, er, gents,¡¨ Hickman said. 
¡§Slept like a rock last night. Out of shape, I guess. Gotta do something about this 
gut.¡¨ 
An awkward silence. 
¡§May we begin?¡¨ Carpathia said. Hickman muttered an apology, but Nicolae was 
already addressing Intelligence Chief Akbar. ¡§Suhail, I have become convinced that 
the location of our armaments remains confidential. Would you concur?¡¨ 
¡§I would, sir, though I confess it baffles me.¡¨ 
¡§Baffles is right!¡¨ Hickman said. ¡§Seems to me we had hundreds of troops involved 
in this thing and¡Xoh, my bad, I'm sorry. I'll wait my turn.¡¨ 
David could only imagine the look Carpathia must have given Hickman. He had to 
have known whom he was putting in such a lofty position. Having Hickman share 
space with Sandra and become primarily an errand boy with a big title proved 
Carpathia knew exactly what he was doing. 
¡§Peacekeeping Forces prepared to go on the offensive, Chief Moon?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir. Ready to deploy, anywhere and everywhere. We can crush any 
resistance.¡¨ 
¡§An update, Reverend?¡¨ 
¡§On loyalty mark, Jerusalem, religion?¡¨ 
¡§Jerusalem, of course,¡¨ Carpathia said, dripping sarcasm. 

Leon was clearly hurt. ¡§On top of it all, Excellency,¡¨ he said. ¡§Program is prepared, 
loyalists ready, should be a triumphal entry in every sense of the word.¡¨ 
¡§Commander Hickman,¡¨ Carpathia said condescendingly, ¡§you may put down your 
hand. You need not ask for the floor here.¡¨ 
¡§I can just jump in then?¡¨ 
¡§No, you cannot just jump in. You have each been invited here because I need 
updates from your areas.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I'm ready. I have that. I¡X¡¨ 
¡§And when I want your input, I shall call on you. Understood?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir; sorry, sir.¡¨ 
¡§No need to apologize.¡¨ 
¡§Sorry.¡¨ 
¡§Suhail or Walter, what kind of resistance may we expect in Jerusalem?¡¨ 
There was a pause, during which, David assumed, the two were looking at each 
other to avoid interrupting. 
¡§Come, come, gentlemen,¡¨ Carpathia said. ¡§I have a planet to rule.¡¨ He chuckled as 
if joking, but it wasn't funny to David. 
Akbar began, slowly and articulately. David thought that in another setting, Suhail 
could have been an effective intelligence chief. ¡§Frankly, Potentate, I do not believe 
the Judah-ites will show their faces. I am not discounting the effectiveness of their 
movement. Their numbers still seem large, but they are an underground cause, 
networked by computers. You will not likely see the mass public rally similar to the 
one at Kolleck Stadium when Tsion B¡X¡¨ 
¡§I recall it well, Akbar. Tell me, is part of the reason they are not likely to make a 
fuss in Jerusalem because many of their ranks have been dissuaded by seeing a real 
resurrection¡Xone that does not require blind faith?¡¨ 
Silence, except for the clearing of a throat. David assumed it was Suhail's. 
¡§No?¡¨ 
¡§Surprisingly not, sir. That would certainly have persuaded me of your deity, except 
that I was already convinced of it.¡¨ 
¡§Me too!¡¨ Hickman said. ¡§Sorry.¡¨ 
¡§Of course,¡¨ Fortunato said, ¡§I had personal experience that proved it. And 
now¡Xwell, it's not my turn, is it?¡¨ 
¡§The truth is, Excellency,¡¨ Akbar continued carefully, ¡§our monitoring of the Judahite 
Web site reveals they are even more entrenched. They believe, ah, that your 
resurrection proves the opposite of what is so patently obvious to thinking people.¡¨ 
David flinched when he heard a loud bang on the table, the rolling back of a chair, 

and a string of expletives from Carpathia. That was something new. The Nicolae of 
before always kept his composure. 
¡§Forgive me, Holiness,¡¨ Akbar said. ¡§You understand that I am merely reporting 
what my best analysts¡X¡¨ 
¡§Yes, I know that!¡¨ Carpathia spat. ¡§I just do not understand what it is going to take 
to prove to these people who is worthy of their devotion!¡¨ He swore again, and the 
others seemed to feel obligated to grumble loudly about the lunacy of the skeptics. 
¡§All right!¡¨ Carpathia said finally. ¡§You think they will just snipe at us from the 
comfort of their hiding places.¡¨ 
¡§Correct.¡¨ 
¡§That is unfortunate. I was so hopeful of gloating in their faces. Any confirmation 
that they are harboring Rosenzweig?¡¨ 
David held his breath through another pause. 
¡§I admit we're stumped,¡¨ Walter Moon said. ¡§We traced a few leads from people 
who thought they saw him running, taking a taxi, that kind of a thing. We know for 
sure that stroke was phony.¡¨ 
¡§You can say that again,¡¨ Nicolae said. 
¡§Dang straight!¡¨ Hickman offered. ¡§Sorry.¡¨ 
¡§He deceived me,¡¨ Nicolae added. ¡§I have to give him that.¡¨ 
¡§Urn, sir,¡¨ Moon continued. ¡§I, ah, am not second-guessing you, but...¡¨ 
¡§Please, Walter.¡¨ 
¡§Well, you did pardon your attacker, maybe before you knew who he was.¡¨ 
Carpathia roared with laughter. ¡§You do not think I knew who murdered me? I lift 
that limp arm of his to start the applause and a few seconds later I lurch away from 
the sound of a gun, he chops my feet from under me with that infernal chair, and the 
next thing I know I am in the lap of a madman. Well, I knew instantly what was 
happening, though I may never know why. But he was no frail old man. There was 
no stiff arm and no limp arm, no scrawny senior citizen. He rammed that blade into 
me, and I could hear him gutting my skull. The man was hard as a rock and strong.¡¨ 
¡§Ought to put out a worldwide all points bulletin and use all our resources to bring 
him in,¡¨ Hickman said. ¡§Got him on tape! Show it to the world!¡¨ 
¡§In due time,¡¨ Carpathia said, calmer now, and it sounded to David as if Nicolae 
had sat and joined them again. ¡§I pardoned him, knowing that a world of loyal 
subjects would relish avenging me, should he ever show his face. Needless to say, 
we shall not prosecute a crime when that event occurs.¡¨ 
¡§Needless to say,¡¨ Hickman parroted. 
¡§And,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§where are we with the accomplice?¡¨ 

¡§The nut with the gun?¡¨ Moon said. ¡§We don't think he was Middle Eastern. Found 
his getup and the weapon. Matches the bullet. No prints. No leads. You're 
convinced they were working together?¡¨ 
Carpathia sounded flabbergasted. ¡§Convinced? I am not the law-enforcement expert 
here, but the timing of those two attacks was just a little too coincidental, would you 
not agree?¡¨ 
¡§I would,¡¨ Hickman said. ¡§I worked that case and¡X¡¨ 
¡§Proceed,¡¨ Nicolae said. 
¡§I figure they were hedgin' their bets. If one of 'em didn't get ya, the other one 
would. Guy with the gun could have been a diversion, but he's lucky he didn't kill 
anybody.¡¨ 
Akbar cleared his throat. ¡§You're aware there's a connection between Ben-Judah 
and Rosenzweig?¡¨ 
¡§Tell me,¡¨ Nicolae said. 
¡§Ben-Judah was once a student of Rosenzweig's.¡¨ 
¡§You don't say,¡¨ Nicolae said, and it was the first time David had heard him use a 
contraction. ¡§Hmm. Find Ben-Judah, and you find Rosenzweig.¡¨ 
¡§That's what I was thinkin',¡¨ Hickman said. 
¡§I'm ready for your report, James.¡¨ 
¡§Me? Mine? You are? Oh, yes, sir. Um, everything's on track. Injector thingies, 
beheaders, er, um, jes' a minute. Viv, ah, Ms. Ivins gave me the correct terminology 
here, bear with me. Loyalty confirmation facilitators. Got those comin' or goin', 
depending. They're on their way here and there and wherever we need 'em. Not all 
of 'em, certainly. Some are being made as we speak, but we're on schedule. I found 
a nurse here that has experience shooting biochips into . . . into . . . well. . . dogs, I 
guess. But she's going to help train. And I've got a lead on your pig.¡¨ 
¡§My pig?¡¨ 
¡§Oh! Not, I mean, if you don't need a pig, they'll just butcher it and use it here. But 
if you needed a pig, I'm pretty sure we've got a big one ordered.¡¨ 
¡§What would I want a pig for, James?¡¨ 
¡§It's not that I heard ... or knew ... I mean . . . that you actually need a pig for 
anything, really. But if you ever did, just let me know, all right. You need one? For 
anything?¡¨ 
¡§Who has been talking to you, Commander?¡¨ 
¡§Um, what?¡¨ 
¡§You heard me.¡¨ 
¡§Talking to me?¡¨ 

Carpathia was suddenly shouting, cursing again. ¡§Mr. Hickman, what is said in 
these meetings in my private office is sacred. Do you understand?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir. I would never¡X¡¨ 
¡§Sacred! The security of the Global Community depends on the confidentiality and 
trustworthiness of the communications in here. You've heard the old expression, 
'Loose lips sink ships'?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, I have. I know what you mean.¡¨ 
¡§Someone told you there was a discussion in this room about my need for a pig.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I'd rather not¡X¡¨ 
¡§Oh, yes, you had rather, Mr. Hickman! Violating the sacred trust of the potentate 
of the Global Community is a capital offense, is it not, Mr. Moon?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir, it is.¡¨ 
¡§So, James, the next thing out of your mouth had better be the guilty party, or you 
will pay the ultimate price for the transgression. I'm waiting.¡¨ 
David could hear Hickman whimpering. 
¡§The name, Commander. If I hear that he is your friend or that you'd rather not say 
or anything other than who he is, you are a dead man.¡¨ 
Still Hickman struggled. 
¡§You have ten seconds, sir.¡¨ 
Hickman took a labored breath and coughed. 
¡§And now five.¡¨ 
¡§He's¡Xhe's¡Xa¡X¡¨ 
¡§Mr. Moon, are you prepared to take Mr. Hickman into custody for the purpose of 
exec¡X¡¨ 
¡§Ramon Santiago!¡¨ Hickman blurted. ¡§But I beg of you, sir, don't¡X¡¨ 
¡§Mr. Moon.¡¨ 
¡§Please! No!¡¨ 
David heard Moon on his cell phone. ¡§Moon here. Listen, take Santiago into 
custody. .. . Right, the one from Peacekeeping . . . right now . . . yes. Till I get 
there.¡¨ '¡§You'll let me handle it personally, Walter?¡¨ 
¡§As you wish.¡¨ 
¡§No! Please!¡¨ 
¡§James, when it is announced tomorrow that a Peacekeeping deputy commander has 
been put to death, you at least will understand the gravity of the rules, won't you?¡¨ 
David heard assent through Hickman's sobs. Apparently that wasn't good enough 
for Carpathia. 

¡§Won't you, Supreme Commander?¡¨ 
¡§Yes!¡¨ 
¡§I thought so. And yes, I have need of a pig. A big, fat, juicy, huge-nostriled beast 
so overfed that it will be too lethargic to throw me, should I choose to ride it 
through the Via Dolorosa in the Holy City. Tell me, Hickman. Tell me about my 
pig.¡¨ 
¡§I haven't actually seen it yet,¡¨ Hickman said miserably, ¡§but¡X¡¨ 
¡§But you understand my order.¡¨ 
¡§Yes.¡¨ His voice was shaky. 
¡§Big, fat, and ugly?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah.¡¨ 
¡§I didn't hear you, James. Stinky? May I have him smelly?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah.¡¨ 
¡§Whatever I want?¡¨ 
¡§Yes!¡¨ 
¡§Are you angry with me, my loyal servant?¡¨ 
¡§Uh-huh.¡¨ 
¡§Well, thank you for your honesty. Do you understand that I want an animal that 
could accommodate my fist in either nostril?¡¨ 
David jumped at the knock on his door. Mac and Abdullah had arrived. 
FIFTEEN 
Buck felt his age and was embarrassed to disembark in Kozani, Greece, with a 
severe case of jet lag that didn't seem to bother the older Albie. And Albie, of 
course, had done all the flying. 
¡§Use it to your advantage,¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§How so?¡¨ 
¡§It should make you cranky.¡¨ 
¡§I'm pretty even.¡¨ 
¡§Well, quit that. You're just being polite. Your natural instinct, when you'd rather be 
in bed, is to be testy, short, irritable. Go with it. GC Peacekeepers are macho, in 
charge. They have an attitude.¡¨ 
¡§So I've noticed.¡¨ 

¡§Don't ask¡Xdon't apologize. You're a busy man, on assignment, with things to do.¡¨ 
¡§Got it.¡¨ 
¡§Do you?¡¨ 
¡§I think so.¡¨ 
¡§That didn't sound so macho.¡¨ 
¡§I've got to be that way with you too?¡¨ 
¡§At least practice, Buck. You Americans, I swear. I had to shame your father-in-law 
into being the leader he was born to be. You're an international journalist and you 
can't playact to get things done?¡¨ 
¡§I think I can.¡¨ 
¡§Well, show me. How did you get the big stories, get access to the best interview 
subjects?¡¨ 
¡§I used the power of my position.¡¨ 
¡§Exactly.¡¨ 
¡§But I was working for Global Weekly.¡¨ 
¡§More than that. You were Buck Williams, the Buck Williams of Global Weekly. It 
may have been your talent and your writing that made you the Buck Williams, but 
once you were him, you walked with confidence, didn't you?¡¨ 
¡§I guess.¡¨ 
¡§I guess,¡¨ Albie mocked. ¡§Come on, Buck! You strutted!¡¨ 
¡§You want me to strut?¡¨ 
¡§I want you to get us a vehicle to drive to the detention center where Pastor Demeter 
and Mrs. Miklos and several others from their church are incarcerated.¡¨ 
¡§But wouldn't it be easier for you?¡¨ 
¡§Why?¡¨ 
¡§You're the superior officer. You outrank everybody we'll run into.¡¨ 
¡§Then take advantage of that. I'll be the one everybody sees but no one mentions. 
They will only salute. You speak with my authority. And you're wearing that 
beautiful uniform, tailored at Chez Zeke.¡¨ 
¡§I'll try.¡¨ 
¡§You're hopeless.¡¨ 
¡§I can do this.¡¨ 
¡§You're not giving me confidence.¡¨ 
¡§Watch me.¡¨ 
¡§That's what I'm afraid of. I'll be watching you get found out. Prove me wrong, 

Buck.¡¨ 
¡§Outta my way, old man.¡¨ 
¡§That's the spirit.¡¨ 
¡§You going to have them refuel us while we're in Ptolemai's?¡¨ 
¡§No, Buck, you are.¡¨ 
¡§C'mon. I don't know all that plane stuff.¡¨ 
¡§Just do it. From this point on, I am an angry, jet-lagged, ill-tempered deputy 
commander, and I don't want to speak.¡¨ 
¡§So it's all on me?¡¨ 
¡§Don't ask me. I'm mute.¡¨ 
¡§Are you serious?¡¨ 
But Albie wouldn't answer. The twinkle faded from his eyes and he set his jaw, 
scowling as they marched from the jet to the terminal, about twenty-five miles south 
of their destination. Buck accosted the first corporal he saw. ¡§English?¡¨ he asked 
the young man. 
¡§'Course. 'Sup?¡¨ 
¡§I need you to hangar that aircraft and refuel it while my commanding officer and I 
are on assignment up the road.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah? Well, I want you to shine my boots while I'm sleeping.¡¨ 
¡§I'll pretend I didn't hear that, son.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, good. Me too.¡¨ 
He started to leave and Buck swung him around with a grab of his shoulder. ¡§Do it.¡¨ 
¡§You think I know how to jockey a plane? I'm ground forces, pal. Get some other 
lackey to do it.¡¨ 
¡§I'm telling you. Find someone who knows how to do it and have it done by the 
time we get back, or suffer the consequences.¡¨ 
¡§You gotta be kiddin' me!¡¨ 
Albie had kept his back to the conversation, and Buck was convinced he was trying 
not to laugh aloud. 
¡§You got that, son?¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§I'm outta here. I'll take my chances. You don't even know my name.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I do,¡¨ Albie said, spinning to face the boy, suddenly ashen. ¡§And you'll do 
what you're told or you'll be walking back to your hometown in civilian clothes.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir,¡¨ the boy said, saluting. ¡§Right away, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Don't let me down, boy,¡¨ Albie called after him. 

Buck gave Albie a look. ¡§Thought you were mute.¡¨ 
¡§Somebody had to bail you out.¡¨ 
¡§He was my own rank!¡¨ 
¡§That's why you refer to me! I've got the clout, but you've got to use it. Try again.¡¨ 
¡§What now?¡¨ 
¡§I told you. We need a vehicle.¡¨ 
¡§Ach!¡¨ 
Buck strode into the terminal, which was crawling with GC. With the crackdown on 
the underground churches, it would be a noisy area for a while. ¡§Give me your 
papers,¡¨ he told Albie. 
¡§What for?¡¨ 
¡§Just do it! Hand 'em over!¡¨ 
¡§Now you're talking.¡¨ 
Buck stepped to the front of a line of GC Peacekeepers. ¡§Hey!¡¨ the first in line 
shouted. 
¡§Hey yourself,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§You a deputy commander or are you escorting one? 
Because if you're not, I'd appreciate your standing down.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir.¡¨ 
Buck raised an eyebrow at Albie, then spoke to the GC officer at a desk behind a 
window. ¡§Corporal Jack Jensen on behalf of Deputy Commander Marcus Elbaz, 
here on assignment from the USNA. Need a vehicle for transport to Ptolemais.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, you and a thousand other guys,¡¨ the officer said, lazily looking over their 
IDs. ¡§Seriously, you're about two hundredth in line.¡¨ 
¡§Seems to me we're near the top, sir, begging your pardon.¡¨ 
¡§How come your superior officer is USNA? He looks Middle Eastern.¡¨ 
¡§I don't do the assigning, pal. And I wouldn't recommend getting into it with him. 
No, better yet, it would be fun. Tell him he looks Middle Eastern and that you're 
questioning his base of operations. Go ahead. Really.¡¨ 
The officer pursed his lips and slid the IDs back under the window. ¡§Something 
basic do ya?¡¨ 
¡§Anything. I could push for something fancy, but we just want to get in and get out. 
Anyway, tell you the truth, Elbaz has been so touchy today, I don't think he 
deserves a nicer ride. We'll take whatever you've got.¡¨ 
The officer slid Buck a set of keys attached to a manila ticket. ¡§Show this at the 
temporary motor pool behind the exit gate.¡¨ 
As they headed that way, Albie mimicked Buck. ¡§He's been so touchy today, I don't 

think he deserves a nicer ride. I oughta bust you down to Boy Scout.¡¨ 
¡§You do and you'll be walking home in civilian clothes.¡¨ 
¡§Carpathia's up to something,¡¨ Mac said, sitting next to Abdullah in David's office. 
¡§I am going to be so glad to say good-bye to this place,¡¨ Abdullah said. 
David shifted in his chair. ¡§Tell me about it.¡¨ 
¡§Well, don't you want to get out of here too?¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry, Smitty,¡¨ David said. ¡§I was talking to Mac.¡¨ 
¡§Oh! A thousand pardons.¡¨ 
¡§Watch him now,¡¨ Mac said. ¡§He'll be pout in a New Babylon second.¡¨ 
¡§I am not pout! Now stop teasing!¡¨ 
Mac smacked Abdullah on the shoulder and the Jordanian smiled. ¡§Anyway,¡¨ Mac 
said, turning back to David, ¡§Carpathia calls me a little while ago and asks me do I 
know where his weapons are. 'Course, I don't, but I'd sure like to. Tell you 
somethin', guys, people can talk all they want about the miraculous rebuilding 
Carpathia did all over the world. But nothin', and I mean nothin', compares to him 
getting all those countries to destroy 90 percent of their weapons and give him the 
other 10, and then him storin' 'em somewhere that nobody ever talks about.¡¨ 
¡§Loose lips sink ships,¡¨ David repeated. 
¡§You think people know but won't say?¡¨ 
¡§Obviously.¡¨ 
¡§How does he keep a secret that big among so many people?¡¨ 
¡§I think I just heard how,¡¨ David said, and he briefed Mac and Abdullah on it. 
Abdullah sat shaking his head. ¡§Nicolae Carpathia is a bad man.¡¨ 
Mac looked at Abdullah and then at David. ¡§Well, yeah! I mean, come on, Smitty. 
You just come to that conclusion, or have you known all along and just been 
keeping it from us?¡¨ 
¡§I know you are teasing me,¡¨ Abdullah said. ¡§Just wait until I know your language 
good.¡¨ 
¡§You'll be dangerous; that's a fact.¡¨ 
David's cell phone rang. He flipped it open and held up an apologetic finger. ¡§It's 
Ming,¡¨ he said. 
¡§Should we go?¡¨ Mac said. 
David shook his head. 
¡§They were fighting over what you assumed they were fighting over,¡¨ she said. 
¡§My father wants Chang to take a job right away with the GC and be among the 
first to take the mark. Chang swears he will never take the mark.¡¨ 

¡§Did he tell your father why?¡¨ 
¡§No, and I am coming to see that he never can unless my father himself somehow 
becomes a believer. I have not lost faith and I keep praying, but until that happens, 
Chang cannot tell him. He would expose us.¡¨ 
¡§Does your mother know?¡¨ 
¡§No! She would eventually tell him. I'm afraid she is so intimidated that she would 
not be able to stand up to him in the end. David, you cannot let Chang get a job 
there, especially if new employees are the first to get the mark.¡¨ 
¡§It appears that prisoners are going to be first, but yes, new employees soon. As 
they are hired, apparently. And even the rest of us within a couple of weeks.¡¨ 
¡§What are you going to do, David? You and your friends?¡¨ 
¡§We're talking about that now. Obviously, we run or we die.¡¨ 
¡§Can you take Chang with you?¡¨ 
¡§Kidnap him?¡¨ 
Ming was silent. Then, ¡§Did you hear yourself, David? You want to leave him to 
take the mark or be beheaded for refusing so you won't run the risk of kidnapping 
him? Please! Kidnap him! For one thing, he will go willingly.¡¨ 
¡§I'm supposed to interview him for a job tomorrow.¡¨ 
¡§Then either find a way to eliminate him, discredit him as a potential employee, or 
tell him where to meet you when you escape.¡¨ 
¡§The latter is more likely. What could possibly disqualify him? He looks like a gold 
mine to any department, especially mine.¡¨ 
¡§Make something up. Say he has AIDS.¡¨ 
¡§And let your father kill him himself?¡¨ 
¡§Well, how about a genetic defect?¡¨ 
¡§Does he have one?¡¨ 
¡§No! But work with me.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not a doctor, Ming. It would just stall things.¡¨ 
¡§That's better than nothing.¡¨ 
¡§Not if it makes me look suspicious. We're hoping to get out of here without their 
suspecting we are subversives.¡¨ 
¡§Great idea. Tell them you want to take Chang with you to check him out before 
hiring. Then, whatever happens to you happens to him. He's free and he can help 
you wherever you go.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe.¡¨ 
¡§It has to work, David. What choice is there?¡¨ 

¡§What if they don't go for it? What if they say no, just hire him, give him the mark, 
and then take him on assignment?¡¨ 
¡§You have to try. He's brilliant, but he's a child. He can't fend for himself. He can't 
even defend himself against my father.¡¨ 
¡§I'll do the best I can, Ming.¡¨ 
¡§That sounds like an excuse after everything fails.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry, but I can't do better than the best I can do.¡¨ 
¡§David, he's my brother! I know he's not your flesh, but can you pretend? If it was 
Annie, would you do your best? Or would you do whatever you had to do to save 
her?¡¨ 
David couldn't speak. 
¡§Oh, David! Forgive me! That was so wrong of me! Please! That was cruel.¡¨ 
¡§No. I¡X¡¨ 
¡§David, please blame that on my fear and my situation.¡¨ 
¡§It's all right, M¡X¡¨ 
¡§Please tell me you forgive me. I didn't mean that.¡¨ 
¡§Ming, it's all right. You're right. I understand. You put it in perspective for me. 
Count on me. I will do whatever I have to do to protect Chang, all right?¡¨ 
¡§David. Do you accept my apology?¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you. I'll be praying for you and loving you in the Lord.¡¨ 
When David rang off, Mac said, ¡§What in the world did she say, man? You looked 
more like me than like an Israeli there for a second.¡¨ 
David told him. 
¡§Tell you what,¡¨ Mac said, ¡§and Smitty you speak for yourself on this, but if that 
boy's a believer and he's got the mark to prove it, he's with us. And anybody else we 
can find before we get out of here. Right, Smitty?¡¨ 
¡§Right, I think. If I understand. Other believers here all go with us, yes. Of course. 
Right?¡¨ 
¡§That's what we're saying.¡¨ 
¡§Mac, a question. Who else would speak for me?¡¨ 
On the drive north, Buck used a secure phone to call Lukas (Laslos) Miklos. The 
man was distraught. ¡§Thank you for coming, but there is nothing you can do. Surely 
you did not bring weapons.¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
¡§You would be so hopelessly outnumbered anyway that you would never get out 

alive. So why the trip? What can you do?¡¨ 
¡§I wanted to see it firsthand, Laslos. Expose it to the world through The Truth.¡¨ 
¡§Well, forgive me, Brother Williams. I love your magazine, and I read it almost as 
religiously as Dr. Ben-Judah's messages. But you go to all the time and trouble and 
expense and danger to come all the way here, and it is for a magazine article? Did 
you know that the guillotines have arrived?¡¨ 
¡§What?¡¨ 
¡§It's true. I would pass it off as a rumor myself if it weren't for the brothers and 
sisters who told me. The GC is carting them through town in open trucks so the 
people can see the consequences of thinking for themselves. We are part of the 
United Carpathian States, a name I have to spit when I say. Nicolae is going to 
make an example of us. And you are here to write an article!¡¨ 
¡§Brother Miklos, hear me. You knew there was nothing we could do. We would 
make matters only worse if we tried to free your wife and pastor and fellow 
believers. But I thought you'd want to know we were here so we can tell you¡Xif we 
get in¡Xwhat the conditions are, how their spirits are, whether they have any 
messages for you.¡¨ 
Silence. Then Buck heard Laslos weeping. 
¡§Are you all right, my friend?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, brother. I understand. Forgive me. I am upset. It is all over the television that 
the guillotines will be set up first in the prisons, then at the mark sites. It is just a 
matter of days for us now. But it could be just hours for the prisoners. Please tell my 
wife I love her and am praying for her and long to see her again. And tell her that if 
I don't see her again in this life, I will meet her in heaven. Tell her,¡¨ and he began to 
weep aloud, ¡§that she was the best wife a man could have and that, that I love her 
with all my heart.¡¨ 
¡§I will tell her, Laslos, and I will bring you any message she may have as well.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you, my brother. I am grateful you have come.¡¨ 
¡§Do you know where she and the others have been taken?¡¨ 
¡§We have an idea, but we dare not go looking or we will all be rounded up. You 
know our church is made up of many, many small groups that are not so small 
anymore. When the GC raided the main one, they took my wife and Pastor D and 
about seventy others, but they missed more than ninety other groups.¡¨ 
¡§Wow.¡¨ 
¡§That is the good news. The worst of it is that apparently some in the original group 
have cracked under the strain. I can tell you without question it would not have been 
my wife or my pastor, but someone was tortured or scared or deceived into telling 
of the other groups. More raids have begun, and now they dare not meet at all. It is 
only a miracle I was not at the meeting with my wife, but if she becomes a martyr, 

I'll wish I was there to die with her.¡¨ 
¡§We came up with a question, besides a suggestion, David, and Smitty was very 
helpful on this, by the way,¡¨ Mac said. ¡§We tease him about the language, but that's 
a pretty shrewd brain in there. That's a compliment, Abdullah.¡¨ 
¡§Well, hey, cowpoke, I know that much right now!¡¨ 
¡§I guess if I can make fun of Jordan, he can make fun of Texas. Really burned me 
there, didn't he? Anyway, the question is this: Do we want to play this out to the 
end, assumin' you're gonna have an inside track on exactly when employees have to 
take the mark? Or do we want some wiggle room?¡¨ 
David thought about it. ¡§It's more than wiggle room, Mac. It's part of the 
impression. If we wait till the last second and still try to make it look like we were 
killed, the timing alone is going to make it suspicious.¡¨ 
¡§That's what I said!¡¨ Abdullah said. ¡§Isn't that what I said, Mac? I said that.¡¨ 
¡§That's what he said. Good point. OK, if we're going to do this sooner than the 
actual deadline, we have lots of options. Peacekeeping just started shipping its first 
loads of¡Xwhat are they calling those contraptions now? Loyalty somethin's or 
other.¡¨ 
¡§Call 'em what they are,¡¨ David said. 
¡§OK, they shipped guillotines into Greece last night.¡¨ 
¡§Not from here,¡¨ David said. ¡§I would have known that.¡¨ 
¡§No, these were actually manufactured in Istanbul and driven down. Pretty soon 
they'll be flyin' 'em here and there, and you know we'll be pressed into service. You 
ought to pick a particularly strategic place you want to see or a shipment you want 
to monitor, find a reason to bring Hannah and Chang what's-his-name, and I'll have 
to requisition a Quasi Two.¡¨ 
¡§A Two? How will you justify that? We want to avoid suspicion. You can fit two 
pilots and three passengers in something cheaper than a 15-million-Nick aircraft.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, but let's say we want to take a huge load of guillotines and skids of biochips 
and injectors.¡¨ 
¡§I'm listening. Still need more ammo to justify a Two.¡¨ 
¡§Well, let's say it's somewhere that St. Nick hisself is gonna be.¡¨ 
¡§Tell him who thought of that,¡¨ Abdullah said. 
¡§I think you just did, big mouth.¡¨ 
¡§Big mouth?¡¨ 
¡§Teasin', Smitty. Slow your camel down now.¡¨ 
David cocked his head. ¡§Are you thinking what I think you're thinking?¡¨ 
¡§Is this a game?¡¨ Abdullah said. 

¡§We are,¡¨ Mac said. ¡§Jerusalem.¡¨ 
David sat considering the possibilities. ¡§I pass the word up the line that we want to 
be there, bring the injection expert and my best new computer prospect. We want to 
carry the maximum cargo load in an impressive craft that will look good for the 
potentate, play to his ego.¡¨ 
¡§You think he's egotistical?¡¨ Mac said, as seriously as if he meant it. 
David smiled. 
¡§Is he joking again?¡¨ Abdullah said. ¡§Not enough cloth in Jordan to make a turban 
for Nicolae's head.¡¨ 
Mac threw his head back and laughed. 
David was still deep in thought. ¡§And the Quasi Two can be flown remotely.¡¨ 
¡§Just about any plane can nowadays, but I've got lots of experience with these.¡¨ 
¡§So we land somewhere out of sight on our way there. Then, from the safety of the 
ground, you fly that very expensive jet, with all that precious cargo¡Xexcept us¡Xin 
it, nose down right into the middle of one of the deepest bodies of water we can 
find.¡¨ 
¡§With people watching.¡¨ 
¡§Come again?¡¨ 
¡§Let 'em see it! You wanted us to think about a logical explanation for the accident. 
Well, forgive the painful subject, but we recently lost our cargo chief. She would 
have prohibited that much weight on that particular plane, but me bein' a veteran, I 
thought it would handle it. Flyin' it remote and also broadcasting from it remote, I 
start hollerin' about a weight shift, cargo rolling, hard to control, Mayday, good-bye 
cruel world.¡¨ 
¡§You guys are brilliant.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you.¡¨ 
¡§Both of us,¡¨ Abdullah said. ¡§Right?¡¨ 
¡§Of course,¡¨ David said. 
¡§Just thought of one more good one,¡¨ Abdullah said. 
¡§Hold on now, Smitty,¡¨ Mac said. ¡§Is this new to me?¡¨ 
¡§Slow down your pony. You'll like it. You want to do this in front of people, do it in 
Tel Aviv. Carpathia is flying through there. Do air show for him and crowds. Crash 
into Mediterranean, so deep they know we're dead and plane is too deep to bother 
with search.¡¨ 
¡§And where are we supposed to be during all this?¡¨ Mac said. ¡§It's going to be 
awfully hard to hide in Tel Aviv with Carpathia and all his crowds.¡¨ 
¡§We don't take off from Tel Aviv. We come straight from here to show, only they 

don't know we stopped in Jordan. I know that place. We can land where no one 
sees. Send plane to Tel Aviv, do show, crash.¡¨ 
¡§From how far away do you think I can remotely fly that plane, Smitty?¡¨ 
¡§Sort of not remote. Take off remote, but flight plan, tricks, everything programmed 
into computer.¡¨ 
Mac looked from Abdullah to David. ¡§He may just have something there.¡¨ 
¡§Really?¡¨ David said. ¡§You can program the thing that specifically?¡¨ 
¡§It would take some time.¡¨ 
¡§Get on it.¡¨ 
¡§Surprise, surprise,¡¨ Abdullah said. ¡§Camel jockey come up with one.¡¨ 
David's cell phone rang. ¡§Readout says urgent from Hannah.¡¨ 
¡§Take it,¡¨ Mac said. 
¡§Hey, what's up?¡¨ David said. 
¡§You're 100 percent certain this connection is secure?¡¨ 
¡§Absolutely. You all right?¡¨ 
¡§I'm in a utility closet. Did you know Carpathia had a Peacekeeper executed 
today?¡¨ 
¡§Actually, I did. Santiago?¡¨ 
¡§Thanks for telling me. I just had to go get the body from Security lockup.¡¨ 
¡§There wasn't time to tell you, Hannah. Anyway, who knew you'd get assigned?¡¨ 
¡§It was awful. I deal with death all the time, but he was shot between the eyes at 
point-blank range. And they aren't even pretending it's anything but what it was. He 
was executed by Carpathia himself! You know what for? Well, of course you do. 
You know everything.¡¨ 
¡§I heard he talked too much.¡¨ 
¡§Doesn't sound very technical to me, David, but that's what I heard too. Apparently 
he told someone something that Carpathia said in a private meeting.¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry you got in the middle of it, Hannah.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, well, I think I know who ratted him out.¡¨ 
¡§You do?¡¨ 
¡§Do you?¡¨ she said. 
¡§Actually, I do.¡¨ 
¡§David, how can you live with this stuff?¡¨ 
¡§Don't think it's easy.¡¨ 
¡§So, who told? Who got Santiago executed?¡¨ 

¡§You said you knew, Hannah.¡¨ 
¡§You'll confirm it if I'm right?¡¨ 
¡§Sure.¡¨ 
¡§Hickman.¡¨ 
¡§How'd you know?¡¨ 
¡§I'm right, David?¡¨ 
¡§You're right.¡¨ 
¡§He was just delivered to the morgue. Someone found him in his office with a selfinflicted 
gunshot wound to the temple.¡¨ 
SIXTEEN 
Buck and Albie joined and separated from and joined again a caravan of GC 
vehicles picking its way through what was left of Ptolemai's. ¡§Would you look at 
that,¡¨ Albie said, nodding toward open trucks carrying guillotines. ¡§They're ugly, 
but there's really not much to 'em, is there?¡¨ 
Buck shook his head. ¡§That's one of my sidebar stories, how easily they can be 
assembled. They're simple machines with basic, pattern-cut parts. Each is basically 
wood, screws, blade, spring, and rope. That's why it was so easy for the GC to send 
out the specs and let anybody who wanted work and had the materials to have at it. 
You've got huge manufacturing plants reopening to mass-produce these, competing 
with amateur craftsmen in their backyards.¡¨ 
¡§All for something the GC says will serve as a¡Xwhat did they call it, officially?¡¨ 
¡§Visual deterrent. They put just one at each mark application site, and everyone is 
supposed to fall in line.¡¨ 
Albie stopped where a GC Peacekeeper was directing traffic. He signaled the young 
woman over. ¡§I'm working here,¡¨ she said testily until she recognized the uniform. 
She saluted. ¡§At your service, Commander.¡¨ 
¡§We've been assigned the main detention facility, but I left the manifest in my bag. 
Are we close?¡¨ 
¡§The main facility, sir?¡¨ 
¡§I think that's what it said.¡¨ 
¡§Well, they're all together about three clicks west. Take a left at your next 
intersection, and follow the unpaved road around a curve until it joins the rebuilt 
highway again. The center will be on your right, just inside the city. Can't miss it. 
Massive, surrounded by barbed wire and more of us. Better hurry, though, if you 

want to see the fun. They're going to do some chopping tonight if the rebels don't 
soil themselves and change their minds.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah?¡¨ 
¡§Word I get is they're lining them up and sorting them out now. The ones who go 
back to their cells with their heads attached will have a new tattoo tomorrow.¡¨ 
David was exhausted. It was nearly 2300 hours Carpathia Time as he trudged from 
his office toward his quarters. He was stunned to hear energetic steps behind him 
and turned to see Viv Ivins, looking as fresh and gung ho as she did every morning. 
She carried a leather portfolio and smiled brightly at David. 
¡§Evening, Director Hassid,¡¨ she called out as she drew alongside. 
¡§Ma'am.¡¨ 
¡§Great days, hmm?¡¨ 
He didn't know how long he could maintain the charade. ¡§Interesting days, 
anyway,¡¨ he said. 
She stopped. ¡§I love when things fall into place.¡¨ 
He thought that an unfortunate choice of words, given her personal coordination of 
guillotine production and distribution. 
¡§Things humming along, are they?¡¨ he said. 
¡§I've persuaded top brass not to display loyalty enforcement facilitators here at the 
palace.¡¨ 
¡§Oh?¡¨ 
¡§Not the best image.¡¨ 
¡§They're showing up all over the world.¡¨ 
¡§And that's fine. I can live with that. In fact, I'm all for it. Outside the capital city 
and the headquarters in particular, you will have certain elements who need the 
visual aid, a reminder of the seriousness of this test of loyalty. One would have to 
be pathologically committed to one's cause to really decide against the mark. Seeing 
the consequence standing right before you as you make your decision will persuade 
those who merely want a little attention for stalling with their choice.¡¨ 
¡§But not here.¡¨ 
¡§Not necessary. If a person was not loyal to the risen potentate, why would he or 
she want to work here? What I want to see produced here are pictures, still and 
moving, of happy, willing, joyful loyalists. The citizenry of the Global Community 
should see rapture on the faces of those it depends upon to administer the new world 
order. No enforcement is needed here. We are the examples to the world of the joy 
of commitment, the sense of fulfillment when one takes his stand. Follow?¡¨ 
¡§Sure. And I have to say, I like the idea of those ugly contraptions not dotting the 

landscape here.¡¨ 
¡§I couldn't agree more. We start with new hires tomorrow, and there is much 
enthusiasm among them over being among the first to receive the potentate's mark. 
All are opting for his image on their foreheads. I plan to go for the simple 
understatement, but I have to say, Mr. Hassid, it's fun to see these kids today with 
their eagerness to stand out. You're interviewing a prospect tomorrow.¡¨ 
¡§Right.¡¨ 
¡§The Asian prodigy.¡¨ 
¡§That's him.¡¨ 
¡§What a family! His father is pleading to have his son be the first to receive the 
mark. It's too late for that, as we're beginning with political prisoners, but he very 
well could be the first GC employee.¡¨ 
David blanched and tried to cover. ¡§But he's not been hired yet.¡¨ 
¡§It's a foregone conclusion though, right?¡¨ 
¡§Well, I need to talk with him at length, determine his suitability to take his last 
year of high school here, be away from his parents for the first time, see where he 
fits best. ...¡¨ 
¡§But the odds of him not being hired somewhere here are minuscule. We could 
process him first and he would, in essence, be pre-approved to work in any 
department. Sort of like a pre-approved mortgage. First you qualify, then you can 
make an offer on anything in your price range.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't do that,¡¨ David blurted. 
¡§Why not?¡¨ 
¡§It just doesn't seem as buttoned-down as we like to be. Let's let the process run its 
course¡Xdo it right.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, Mr. Hassid, honestly. What would be the harm?¡¨ 
He shrugged. ¡§I was told the boy is scared to death of needles and is fighting the 
whole idea.¡¨ 
¡§Even to the point where he would pass up a golden opportunity here? He's going to 
have to take the mark in the United Asian States anyway, or he'll lose more than a 
job.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe he'll get used to the idea by then.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, pish-posh, Director Hassid. If he's so brilliant, it's time for him to grow up. He 
may fight it, but it'll be over in seconds and he'll see he made a big to-do about 
nothing.¡¨ 
¡§Well, my meeting with him is at 0900 hours. It can wait till after that, can't it? I'd 
hate to try to interview him after he's been through a trauma.¡¨ 

¡§A trauma? I just told you¡X¡¨ 
¡§But he'll still be upset.¡¨ 
¡§I can't imagine them administering marks before 0900 anyway.¡¨ 
In his room a few minutes later, David used his subnotebook to double-check his 
secretary's schedule. / She had not informed him of a time for his appointment with 
Chang, and a quick look at her calendar showed why. The meeting had been 
confirmed at the end of the day for 1400 hours, two o'clock. It was something she 
would tell him in the morning. 
David changed it on her calendar to 0900, then hacked into Personnel's computer 
and did the same. He phoned 4054 and left a voice message: ¡§Chang, our interview 
tomorrow has been changed to 9 A.M. Please do not go to Personnel or anywhere 
else until we've met. See you then.¡¨ 
While he was finishing his message, his phone told him he had a call waiting. He 
punched in to find Ming, distraught. ¡§It's started here,¡¨ she said. ¡§Has it started 
there?¡¨ 
¡§Slow down, Ming. What's started?¡¨ 
¡§Application of the mark! The equipment arrived at Buffer this morning, and they're 
already using it tonight.¡¨ 
¡§Prisoners are getting the chip?¡¨ 
¡§Yes! I can't imagine it will be much longer for us staff. I need to bolt soon, but I 
wanted to check.¡¨ 
¡§Any believers there? Anyone refusing the mark?¡¨ 
¡§Not a one. They're lining up for this thing as if they've been loyal scouts forever. I 
think they're hoping they'll get good behavior points. Truth is, they'll still be rotting 
here, but with a mark on head or hand.¡¨ 
David told her of his conversation with Viv and what he had done about it. ¡§Oh, no, 
no,¡¨ she said. ¡§At nine you must make Chang disappear. Get him out of there.¡¨ 
¡§We're not prepared to leave yet, Ming.¡¨ 
¡§What are you going to do?¡¨ 
¡§I'll have to make up something, I guess. Some reason why he is just not ready. 
Maybe I'll say I found evidence of immaturity, that I just think he's too young to fit 
in.¡¨ 
¡§You're a director, David. Make it convincing. This has to work.¡¨ 
¡§I have all night to think about it.¡¨ 
¡§And I have all night to pray about it.¡¨ 
¡§I'll take all I can get, Ming. Listen, let me do something for you. I can get you 
reassigned to USNA.¡¨ 

¡§You could?¡¨ 
¡§Of course. I just do it through the computer and no one questions it. They see it's 
approved by someone higher than their level, and they don't rock the boat. Where 
do you want to go?¡¨ 
¡§There are prisons all over the States,¡¨ she said. ¡§But I'm never actually going to get 
to one, right?¡¨ 
¡§Right. We get you assigned, get you on a plane, but then lose you somehow. You 
run off and we can't find you. But then you're on your own. You need to get to the 
safe house in Chicago.¡¨ 
¡§Would they have me?¡¨ 
¡§Ming! Leah has told everyone about you. They can't wait to welcome you. They 
knew you and your brother would eventually have to wind up there. We can use you 
both. Now where shall I assign you in the States? Somewhere close enough to 
Chicago so you can get to the safe house but not so suspiciously close that people 
start putting two and two together.¡¨ 
¡§I don't know the States,¡¨ she said. ¡§There is a huge facility in Baltimore that 
always needs personnel.¡¨ 
¡§That's a long way from Chicago. Wait! Can you get to Greece?¡¨ 
¡§When?¡¨ 
¡§As soon as possible, even tonight.¡¨ 
¡§I guess that's up to you. Make my transfer highest priority, and if you want GC 
here to get me to Greece, they'll have to do it. But David, Greece is a hot spot right 
now, crawling with GC and making an example of political prisoners. I don't want 
to work or hide there.¡¨ 
David told her how she would get to the States from Greece, and it would appear 
GC was escorting her. 
¡§There is a God,¡¨ she said. ¡§Where do I meet these men?¡¨ 
¡§Get to the airport at Kozani. They'll find you.¡¨ 
¡§Can you get Chang there too? Please, David, do it! Get him out of my parents' 
quarters, get him assigned somewhere, and have one of your pilots get him to 
Greece. We can go to the safe house together.¡¨ 
¡§Ming, please. It has to make sense. I pull a stunt like that, your parents lose track 
of Chang, and it all comes back to me¡Xnot to mention you! You both are sent 
somewhere and then wind up lost? Think, Ming. I know you're desperate and that 
you care, but let me work on the logistics. The last thing I want is for the GC 
spotlight to turn on us.¡¨ 
¡§I know, David. I understand. I'm thinking with my heart.¡¨ 
¡§Nothing wrong with that,¡¨ he said. ¡§Until we quit thinking at all and make things 

worse.¡¨ 
¡§We in trouble?¡¨ a Greece-based GC Peacekeeping chief at the detention center 
asked Buck when he saw he was accompanied by a deputy commander. ¡§We do 
everything by the book.¡¨ 
¡§This looks like a madhouse, frankly,¡¨ Buck said, surveying the complex of five 
rather plain, industrial buildings that had probably once been factories. The 
windows were covered with bars, and the perimeter was a tangle of fence and razor 
wire. But the place was crowded with GC in lines, peering at printouts in the night, 
using flashlights to see where various prisoners were located. 
¡§We do all we can with what we have to work with,¡¨ the chief said, nervously 
eyeing Albie. 
Buck continued to do the talking. ¡§How many prisoners at this facility?¡¨ 
¡§About nine hundred.¡¨ 
¡§You've got that many GC here.¡¨ 
¡§Well, not quite, sir.¡¨ 
¡§What are they all doing? Are they assigned?¡¨ 
¡§Most are running the mark center in the middle building.¡¨ 
¡§What is in the other buildings?¡¨ 
¡§Teenagers through early twenties in the first building, males in the west wing, 
females in the east.¡¨ 
¡§Individual cells?¡¨ 
¡§Hardly. Prisoners are incarcerated in large, common areas that used to be 
production lines.¡¨ 
¡§And in the other buildings?¡¨ 
¡§Women in the next. None in the center. Men in the last two.¡¨ 
¡§What are the majority of these people charged with?¡¨ 
¡§Mostly felonies, some petty theft, larceny.¡¨ 
¡§Any violent criminals?¡¨ 
The chief nodded back over his shoulder. ¡§Murderers, armed robbers, and the like, 
right there.¡¨ 
¡§Political prisoners?¡¨ 
¡§Mostly in the second building, but religious dissidents, at least the men, are right 
here too.¡¨ He motioned to the last building again. 
¡§You've got dissidents in with violent criminals?¡¨ Buck said, leaning forward as if 
to get a better look at the man's nameplate. 
¡§Where they're placed is not my call, sir. I'm coordinating the loyalty mark 

application. And I need to be in that center building in about five minutes. You want 
to help¡XI've got a crew of six moving from building to building, starting with the 
west, doing preliminary sorting.¡¨ 
¡§Meaning?¡¨ 
¡§Determining whether any plan to refuse the mark.¡¨ 
¡§And if so?¡¨ 
¡§They are to identify themselves immediately. We're not going to waste time letting 
people wait until they're in line to decide whether they want to live or die.¡¨ 
¡§What if some change their minds in line?¡¨ 
¡§Decide at the last minute they don't want the mark after all? I don't foresee that!¡¨ 
¡§But what if they do?¡¨ 
¡§We deal with that quickly. But for the most part, we want to know in advance so 
we don't hold things up. Now, gentlemen, I have orders. Will you help with the 
culling or not?¡¨ 
¡§Will this be going on simultaneously in all the buildings?¡¨ Buck asked, not 
wanting to miss the pastor or Mrs. Miklos. 
¡§No. We're starting in the west building. Prisoners will be escorted to the center 
building for processing, then back before those in the next building go. And so 
forth.¡¨ 
¡§We'll help,¡¨ Buck said. 
The chief shouted, ¡§Athenas!¡¨ and a stocky, middle-aged Peacekeeper with a oneinch, 
black crew cut stepped up, three men and two women in uniform behind him. 
¡§Ready, Alex?¡¨ 
¡§Ready, sir,¡¨ Alex said, with a high-pitched voice that didn't match his physique. 
¡§Take Jensen and Elbaz here with you.¡¨ 
¡§I have sufficient staff, sir.¡¨ The chief lowered his head and stared at Athenas. 
¡§They're here from USNA, and if you didn't notice, A. A., Mr. Elbaz is a dep-u-ty 
com-man-der?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir. Would Mr. Elbaz care to lead?¡¨ Albie stuck out his lower lip and shook 
his head. 
It was two in the afternoon in Chicago, and the remaining Trib Force members 
crowded around the television. The local GC news reported that mark applications 
had begun at local jails and prisons. 
Zeke sat rocking before the TV, his hands over his mouth. Rayford asked if Chaim's 
Jerusalem disguise was ready. Zeke kept his eyes on the screen and took his hands 
from his mouth only long enough to say, ¡§All but the robe. Done by tonight.¡¨ 
Tsion had come up with the idea of letting Zeke change Chaim's appearance exactly 

as he had been planning, but also outfitting him in sandals and a thick, brown, 
hooded robe that extended far enough in front of his face to hide his features. The 
whole garment would go over his head and the hem would settle an inch off the 
ground, the waist cinched with a braided rope. Everyone agreed it sounded humble 
and nondescript, and yet ominous enough once Chaim was seen by crowds as in 
charge and with something to say. 
Chaim was slowly accepting the idea, provided he could playact from the shadows 
of his garb. ¡§I still say Tsion ought to go.¡¨ 
¡§Let me promise you, my friend,¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§Allow God to use you mightily to 
get his people to safety, and I will come and address them in person sometime.¡¨ 
The TV anchorman announced that while the area GC had not expected to need the 
loyalty enforcement facilitators, one prisoner had reportedly refused to take the 
mark and had been executed. ¡§This occurred at what was formerly known as the 
DuPage County Jail, and execution of the dissident was carried out less than ninety 
minutes ago. The rebel, serving an indeterminate sentence for black market 
trafficking of fuel oil, has been identified as fifty-four-year-old Gustav 
Zuckermandel, formerly of Des Plaines.¡¨ 
Zeke buried his face in his hands and toppled onto his side, where he lay crying 
quietly. One by one the rest of the Force approached to merely lay a hand on him 
and cry with him. Tsion, Chaim, Rayford, Leah, and Chloe surrounded him and 
Tsion prayed. 
¡§Our Father, once again we face the wrenching loss of a loved one. Shower our 
young brother with hope eternal and remind us all that we will one day see again 
this brave martyr.¡¨ 
When Tsion finished, Zeke drew a sleeve across his wet face, moved to his hands 
and knees, and then awkwardly rose. 
¡§You all right, son?¡¨ Rayford asked. ¡§Got work to do is all,¡¨ Zeke said, averting his 
eyes. And he shuffled back toward his room. 
Buck had a bad taste in his mouth. He had been in these situations before, had seen 
enough depravity and mayhem to last several lifetimes. But he wished he and Albie 
had brought high-powered automatic weapons so they could at least attempt a 
rescue. How, in his flesh, he wanted to spray deadly projectiles into the swarming 
GC. How he would love to have stormed the detention barracks, looking for people 
with the mark of Christ and ferrying them to safety. 
But here was an impossible situation. Prophecy was once again coming to life 
before his eyes, and he would not be able to turn away. At the west building, the 
eight members of the culling team were checked in past the outer fence, and then 
again at the main entrance. 
Buck was assaulted by the stench as soon as they had cleared the main corridor. 
Inside a huge cage milled more than a hundred male teenagers, some looking tough, 

others petrified. The cage was surrounded with four to five guards on a side, 
weapons in hand, smoking, reading magazines, and looking bored. 
The teenagers jumped and cheered and applauded when the team entered. 
¡§Freedom!¡¨ one shouted while the rest laughed. ¡§They've come to free us!¡¨ And 
others jeered and mocked. 
Athenas stepped away from the others and put up both hands for quiet. Buck sidled 
to a guard, who dropped his magazine and straightened up. ¡§Sir?¡¨ he said. 
¡§What's the smell, soldier?¡¨ 
¡§The cans, sir. In the corners, see?¡¨ 
Buck looked to the four corners of the cage where 55-gallon drums stood. Each had 
a makeshift wooden set of steps next to it and was covered by an ill-fitting toilet 
seat. ¡§This building has no facilities?¡¨ 
¡§Only for us,¡¨ the guard said. ¡§Just down that hall.¡¨ 
Buck shook his head. ¡§They can't be led there periodically?¡¨ 
¡§Not enough of us to risk that.¡¨ 
Alex Athenas had finally commanded the prisoners' attention. ¡§You are privileged 
to be among the first to display your loyalty and devotion to His Excellency, the 
risen potentate of the Global Community, Nicolae Carpathia!¡¨ 
To Buck's amazement, this was met with enthusiastic cheering and applause that 
went on for almost a minute. Some teens broke into chants and songs, lauding 
Carpathia. 
Athenas finally quieted them again. ¡§In a few moments you will be led to the central 
building, where you will tell the staff whether you want your loyalty mark on your 
forehead or your right hand. The area you choose will then be disinfected with an 
alcohol solution. When it is your turn, you will enter a cubicle, where you will sit 
and be injected with a biochip, while simultaneously tattooed with the prefix 216, 
which identifies you as a citizen of the United Carpathian States. The application 
takes just seconds. The disinfectant also contains a local anesthetic, and you should 
experience no discomfort. 
¡§Any acts of disorderly conduct will be met with immediate justice. For you 
illiterates, that means you will be dead before you hit the floor.¡¨ 
This was met with more hooting and hollering, but Buck found himself staring at a 
boy in the middle of the crowd. He had black, curly hair, was thin and pasty, and 
wore tilting glasses that appeared to have one lens missing. The boy looked barely 
old enough to be in this crowd, but what caught Buck's eye was the shadow on his 
forehead. Or was it a smudge? Or was it the seal of God? 
¡§Excuse me, officer!¡¨ Buck said, striding past Athenas and peering into the cage. 
The hooting stopped and the prisoners stared. ¡§You, there! Yes, you! Step forward!¡¨ 

The young man made his way through the crowd to the front of the cage, where he 
stood quaking. ¡§Someone open this door!¡¨ Buck barked. No one moved. He ~\^ 
whirled to look at the guard he had spoken to, who shuffled nervously and looked at 
Athenas. 
¡§The rest of you back off,¡¨ Athenas said, and he nodded to the guard, who unlocked 
the cage. 
Buck marched in and grabbed the boy by the arm, his ratty, gray sweater bunching 
under Buck's fingers. He dragged him out of the cage, past Athenas and the other 
guards, scolding him the whole way. ¡§You mock Global Community Peacekeepers, 
young man? You'll learn respect.¡¨ 
¡§No, sir, please¡XI, I¡X¡¨ 
¡§Shut up and keep moving!¡¨ 
Buck dragged him past the guards at the entrance, who called after him, ¡§Wait! 
Who is that! We have to process him out!¡¨ 
¡§Later! ¡¨Buck said. 
¡§Where are we going?¡¨ the boy pleaded with a Greek accent. 
¡§Home,¡¨ Buck whispered. 
¡§But my parents are here.¡¨ 
¡§Give me their names,¡¨ Buck said, and he wrote them down. ¡§I can't guarantee 
they'll get out. But you're not going to die tonight.¡¨ 
¡§You're a believer?¡¨ 
Buck nodded and shushed him. 
They blew past the guards at the outer gate, and Buck marched him to the GC jeep 
across the road. Past the lights and into the shadows, few heads had even turned to 
watch. ¡§Front passenger side,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§Any other believers in the cage?¡¨ 
The boy shook his head. ¡§Never saw anyone.¡¨ 
¡§Give me the name of one of the guys in the cage, just one.¡¨ 
¡§Who?¡¨ 
¡§Anyone. Just give me a name.¡¨ 
¡§Ah, Paulo Ganter.¡¨ 
¡§Got it. Now listen. You are to sit here, right here in this jeep, until I get back. What 
you must not do¡Xare you listening?¡Xis make sure that no one is watching. 
Because if you discover that, you might be tempted to make a run for it and not stop 
until you are somewhere safe. Then I would get back out here later and wonder 
whatever happened to my prisoner. Understand?¡¨ 
¡§I think so. You don't want me to do this?¡¨ 
¡§Of course not. I don't know what I'd do about an escapee. Do you?¡¨ 

The boy managed a weak smile. 
¡§You know what?¡¨ Buck said. ¡§I don't think anybody's watching now.¡¨ Feeling like 
Anis, the mysterious border guard who had discovered Tsion under the seat of the 
bus so long ago, Buck put one hand on the boy's shoulder and another on his head. 
And he said, ¡§And now may the Lord bless you. May the Lord make his face to 
shine upon you and give you peace. Godspeed, son.¡¨ 
Buck trotted back to the gate, and when he glanced over his shoulder, the boy was 
gone. 
The gate guards let Buck through and the ones at the building asked, ¡§Who was 
that?¡¨ 
¡§Ganter, Paulo,¡¨ he said. ¡§Transferred custody to the United North American 
States.¡¨ They were flipping through their printouts as he hurried back in. 
Alex Athenas was finishing. ¡§Are there any here who will be choosing to reject the 
loyalty mark?¡¨ 
The group laughed and waved derisively at him. 
¡§None then? No one? Anyone?¡¨ 
The prisoners looked at each other and quieted. Buck waited and watched to see if 
the boy had been wrong and there were any other believers who might take a stand. 
¡§What if we say no?¡¨ a tough called out, smirking. 
¡§You know the consequences,¡¨ Alex said. The boy drew a finger across his neck. 
¡§That's right,¡¨ Alex added. ¡§Any questions?¡¨ 
¡§No rebels here!¡¨ someone shouted. ¡§All loyal, upstanding citizens!¡¨ 
¡§That's what we like to hear. No questions?¡¨ 
¡§Do we get to choose what image we want?¡¨ 
¡§No. Because of your circumstances, you are allowed only the basic chip and 
number tattoo.¡¨ 
The prisoners groused loudly, and Athenas signaled to his team and the other armed 
guards to get into position. ¡§This will be done in an orderly fashion,¡¨ he said. ¡§Or 
you will wish you had opted to reject the mark.¡¨ 
SEVENTEEN 
Rayford stopped to check in on Zeke, whom he found busy on Chaim's robe. Zeke 
said, ¡§Got enough material. Thinking about makin' him two.¡¨ 
¡§You heard what Tsion said about clothes in the safe haven?¡¨ 

Zeke nodded. ¡§He might want variety though. And I didn't hear Tsion say whether 
the clothes get dirty.¡¨ 
Rayford shrugged. ¡§I admired your dad, Zeke. You know that?¡¨ 
Zeke nodded, still working. 
¡§He was courageous, right to the end.¡¨ 
¡§Didn't surprise me,¡¨ Zeke said. ¡§I told you he'd do that, didn't I?¡¨ 
¡§You had him pegged. I pray we'll all show that kind of courage.¡¨ 
Zeke looked up and shook his head, his eyes distant. 
¡§I wish he hadn't got caught. Bad timing. He coulda done a lot more for the 
believers. Like I'm gonna do.¡¨ 
¡§I admire you too, Zeke. We all do.¡¨ 
Zeke nodded again. 
¡§Don't forget to mourn and grieve too, you know. There's nothing wrong with that.¡¨ 
¡§I can't help it. I miss him already.¡¨ 
¡§I'm just saying, don't pretend¡Xyou don't have to look strong to us. We've all 
suffered terrible losses, and even if the Lord helps us through it, we don't have to 
like it. The Bible doesn't say we're not to mourn. It just says we're not to mourn the 
way people do who have no hope. Mourn with all your might, Zeke, because we do 
have hope. We know we're going to see our loved ones again.¡¨ 
Zeke suddenly stood and thrust out his hand. Rayford shook it. ¡§I don't s'pose I dare 
go try to get his body.¡¨ 
Rayford shook his head. ¡§The first thing they're going to want is to know your 
connection. And you know the second thing.¡¨ 
¡§Whether I want the mark.¡¨ 
¡§We're crippled with the loss of your dad, Zeke. I don't know what we'd do if we 
lost you too.¡¨ 
¡§I just hate to think what they're gonna do with him. I try not to think about. . . you 
know ... his head being . . . you know . . .¡¨ 
¡§I know. But no matter what they do with your dad's body, God knows. He has his 
eye on your father. His soul is in heaven now, and his body will eventually be there 
too, new and improved. If God can resurrect a cremated body¡Xyou now what that 
means?¡¨ 
¡§Burned up, yeah.¡¨ 
¡§Then he can resurrect anybody. Remember, he created us from the dust of the 
earth.¡¨ 
¡§Thanks, Captain Steele. Bad as this is, there's no other place I'd rather have been 
when I heard about it. I sure love all you guys.¡¨ 

¡§And we love you, Zeke.¡¨ 
Rayford walked out and shut the door, noticing Tsion just out of sight of the 
doorway, leaning against the wall, arms folded. 
¡§Excuse me,¡¨ Dr. Ben-Judah said. ¡§I didn't intend to listen in. I didn't know you 
were there. You must have had the same idea I did.¡¨ 
¡§It's all right.¡¨ 
¡§I'm glad I heard that, Rayford. God has restored you to leadership. You did just 
what I know the Lord would have wanted you to do, and you did it well.¡¨ 
¡§Thanks, Tsion. God's been more patient with me than I deserve.¡¨ 
¡§Isn't that true with all of us?¡¨ 
They walked back toward the commons. ¡§I spoke with Chloe a few moments ago,¡¨ 
Tsion said. ¡§I hope I wasn't out of line.¡¨ 
¡§You can't be out of line, Doc. You know that. What was it about?¡¨ 
¡§I was just checking to see how she was doing with the assignment you gave her. I 
have a vested interest, you know.¡¨ 
¡§In the call for planes and pilots? I should say you do! So, save me a conversation. 
How's it going?¡¨ 
¡§She was amused and eager to tell me, actually. She put out the request for brave 
Commodity Co-op members willing to lend their planes and cars and fuel and time 
to the cause of Messiah in Jerusalem¡Xand she told them it would be soon. She 
reports that the response has been overwhelming. The element of danger must make 
these men and women rally. She says they are more willing to throw caution to the 
wind for this scheme than they are to make the routine flights that keep the co-op 
running.¡¨ 
Around the corner Kenny Bruce came chugging, chased by Leah. He appeared lost 
in the fantasy that he had to elude her, though he loved her hugs and tickles. 
¡§Grandpa!¡¨ he squealed, reaching for Rayford. But at the last instant he changed 
course, leaping into the rabbi's arms. ¡§Unca Zone!¡¨ 
Leah laughed and grabbed for him. ¡§That old man can't save you!¡¨ she said, and he 
buried his head in Tsion's chest. 
¡§Old man?¡¨ Tsion said. ¡§Miss Leah, you have wounded me!¡¨ 
Tsion carried Kenny back to his mother, and Leah lingered. ¡§Rayford, I feel useful 
here, helping Chloe¡Xwho's incredible, by the way. That girl could run any size 
corporation. And I love helping with that precious child.¡¨ 
¡§But¡X?¡¨ 
¡§You know what's coming.¡¨ 
He nodded. ¡§I'm still finalizing assignments,¡¨ he said. ¡§But yours includes getting 

out of here awhile.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, thank you, Ray. I don't want to be selfish, and I know Chloe is as antsy as I 
am.¡¨ 
¡§She has responsibilities here. More than you do.¡¨ 
¡§It doesn't seem fair to her.¡¨ 
¡§But she takes her role seriously, and I think she's resigned to it.¡¨ 
¡§Well,¡¨ Leah said, ¡§I can't speak for her, but I would feel trapped.¡¨ 
¡§Trapped by motherhood?¡¨ 
Leah smiled. ¡§Spoken like a man. As someone who has been there, let me tell you, 
at times you need a break. It doesn't have to be long, and you can't wait to get back. 
But, well¡Xit's not my business. But if you find a place for her outside, even a short 
assignment, I'll be happy to spell her.¡¨ 
¡§You can do what she does? Both the co-op and looking after the baby?¡¨ 
¡§Sure. It's only the men around here who are incapable of that.¡¨ Rayford shot her a 
double take. ¡§I'm kidding, Ray. But tell me, am I going to get to go to Israel?¡¨ 
¡§You want to be there?¡¨ 
¡§I was stuck in Belgium last time. All the good stuff happens in Jerusalem.¡¨ 
¡§The dangerous stuff.¡¨ 
¡§And your point?¡¨ 
He cocked his head. ¡§Oh, yeah. You live for that stuff.¡¨ 
¡§I live to serve, Ray. I'm not bragging. It's what I do. It was, even before I became a 
believer. I want to be valuable to the cause. I'm not even suspicious. No one's out 
trying to hunt me down. And with that wacky dental appliance in and if I let Zeke 
touch up the hair, I'm invisible.¡¨ 
¡§It would take more than that to make you Middle Eastern.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe this David character can make me GC then. Give me a reason to be over 
there.¡¨ 
Rayford raised his eyebrows. ¡§Maybe,¡¨ he said. ¡§You never know.¡¨ 
Buck and Albie stood with the culling squad in the female teens' area. Buck found it 
hard to believe the conditions were the same as for the men. There were two women 
guards, but the rest were men. The girls were not as noisy and raucous as the boys, 
but the makeup of the group was similar. There were tough girls and apparent 
victims, but all were curious. 
Buck scoured the group, and a tall brunet stared back at him. He was convinced 
they had seen each other's mark at the same time. Her eyes grew wide, and he tried 
to communicate with his that she must not give him away. As Alex Athenas ran 
through his explanation, Buck casually moved close to Albie. 

¡§I'd better not push my luck. Think you can get one out of here?¡¨ 
¡§Maybe,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§You're not thinking of trying this in every building, are 
you?¡¨ 
¡§I hate doing nothing.¡¨ 
¡§Me too, but we're going to get ourselves killed. And what about when there's a 
bunch of 'em?¡¨ 
¡§I can worry about them only one at a time.¡¨ 
Albie sighed. ¡§Where is she?¡¨ Buck pointed her out. ¡§Watch and learn, buddy boy,¡¨ 
Albie said. 
Albie rushed the cage, shouting. Alex fell silent and watched with everyone else as 
Albie prowled up and back before the wire mesh, eyes on his prey. ¡§You! You from 
the North American States?¡¨ 
The girl froze, her eyes darting at Buck, who nodded slightly, and back at Albie. 
¡§No,¡¨ she said, her voice a constricted squeak. ¡§I'm¡X¡¨ 
¡§Don't lie to me, dirt ball! I'd know you anywhere.¡¨ Albie whirled in a rage that 
almost convinced Buck. ¡§Alex, get somebody to open this cage.¡¨ He turned back, 
pointing at the girl. ¡§Step to the door! Now! Hands behind your head.¡¨ 
She advanced, stiff legged and shuddering, as the gate was unlocked. 
Albie grabbed her and wrenched her out. ¡§Cuffs,¡¨ he announced, and a guard tossed 
him a pair. ¡§Key too,¡¨ he said. ¡§I'll bring 'em back.¡¨ He pushed her up against the 
cage and drew her hands down to hook her up. He slipped the key in his pocket and 
guided her out. 
¡§Have fun,¡¨ a guard whispered as they passed. 
Albie turned on him, grabbed his jacket, and shoved him against the wall. ¡§Say 
again, soldier?¡¨ 
¡§Sorry, sir. That was uncalled for.¡¨ 
Albie gave him another shove and turned back to the girl, hustling her out. He 
returned a few minutes later and returned cuffs and key to the lender. 
Buck was shocked when a girl with a pronounced Greek accent responded in the 
affirmative to Officer Athenas's main question. The other girls whirled to see who it 
was, and Buck leaned in to see if he could detect a mark on her forehead. There was 
none. 
¡§You're refusing the loyalty mark of the Global Community?¡¨ Alex said. 
¡§I'd certainly like to think about it,¡¨ she said. ¡§It seems a drastic move, not 
something to enter into lightly.¡¨ 
¡§You understand the consequences?¡¨ 
¡§I'd just like to think it over.¡¨ 

¡§Fair enough. Anyone else?¡¨ No one. ¡§Young lady, because you are the only one in 
this facility, rather than being sent straight to the confirmation facilitator, you may 
mull this over while in line. Your male counterparts are almost finished with the 
procedure, and where you wind up in line will determine how much time you have 
to decide. When you get to the place in the queue where you are asked where you 
would like the mark affixed, that will be your final chance to elect not to have it at 
all.¡¨ 
¡§And then?¡¨ 
¡§You will be directed to the confirmation facili¡X¡¨ 
¡§You know what that is, girl?¡¨ a teen called out. 
¡§You're dead!¡¨ 
¡§Guillotine! Head chopped off.¡¨ 
The girls quieted and Athenas looked at her. ¡§Still want to think it over?¡¨ 
¡§What, are they serious? You're going to chop my head off for wanting to think this 
through?¡¨ 
¡§Not for thinking, miss. For deciding against. If you decide for, you just choose 
where.¡¨ 
¡§So I don't really have a choice.¡¨ 
¡§Where you been?¡¨ one of the girls said, and others joined in. 
¡§Of course you have a choice,¡¨ Alex said. ¡§I believe I've made it clear. Accept the 
mark or accept the alternative.¡¨ 
¡§The mark or death, you're saying?¡¨ 
¡§Still want to think it over?¡¨ 
She shook her head. 
One of the girls said, ¡§You sure made that harder than it needed to be.¡¨ 
¡§Well, I didn't know there was really no choice.¡¨ 
Before proceeding to the adult women's lockup, Buck and Albie followed the young 
women to the lines in the middle building. It had already become a model of 
efficiency. The prisoners moved along steadily. They were ready with their 
forehead or hand choices, and the disinfectant/anesthesia was applied quickly. The 
injectors sounded like electric staplers, and while some recipients flinched, no one 
seemed to feel pain. 
Almost all the teen males took their marks on their foreheads, and one of the last, as 
he got back in line, raised both arms and shouted, ¡§Long live Carpathia!¡¨ That soon 
became the custom, as it did with the young women choosing to receive the mark 
on their hands. 
Buck stood staring, wishing he could preach. They had made their choices, yes, but 

did they really know what they were choosing? It wasn't between loyalty and death; 
it was between heaven or hell, eternal life or eternal damnation. 
His heart raced as the line of young women neared its end, and they were herded 
back. In the next building he expected to see Mrs. Miklos. How many of her friends 
would be there with her? 
The women's facility was surreal, in that there was no cage. The guards, again, were 
mostly men, and they apparently didn't expect trouble. The women sat, mostly 
passive, chatting quietly, but their curious eyes also took in the Athenas squad. 
Buck strolled around the outside of the group of women, looking for Laslos's wife. 
Finally he noticed a group of about twenty women in a back corner, on their knees. 
In the middle of the group, praying, was Mrs. Miklos. 
¡§Shut up and listen up!¡¨ a guard bellowed, and most of the women came to 
attention. ¡§This here's Officer Athenas, and he's got announcements and 
instructions.¡¨ 
Alex began, but the women in the back¡Xwho Buck assumed were Mrs. Miklos's 
believing friends¡Xpaid no attention and continued praying. Some gazed toward 
heaven, and Buck saw the marks on their foreheads. Others peered up and around 
the crowd at Alex, and Buck noticed that some of them had no mark. Laslos's wife 
had apparently been trying to recruit new believers. 
Athenas grew impatient with those kneeling in the back. ¡§Ladies, please!¡¨ he said, 
but they ignored him. He nodded to one of his female assistants, who handed her 
high-powered rifle and side arm to a compatriot, pulled out her baton, and moved 
directly into the tough-looking women in the front, heading toward the rear. A 
young, thick, healthy woman, she stared down the menacing ones, clearly knowing 
that her comrades had her back. 
¡§As I was saying,¡¨ Alex took up again, but he stopped when the attention of the 
women diverted to where his guard was headed. 
¡§Ladies!¡¨ the guard bellowed. ¡§You will cease and desist, face the front, and give 
Officer Athenas your full attention.¡¨ 
Many did just that. Some stood and moved away from the group. Others remained 
kneeling but looked up. Still others kept their heads bowed and eyes closed, lips 
moving in prayer. Mrs. Miklos, kneeling with her back to the guard, kept her hands 
folded, head bowed, eyes closed, praying softly. 
The guard poked her with the baton, and she nearly lost her balance. When Mrs. 
Miklos turned to look up at her, the guard bent close and shouted, ¡§Do you 
understand me, ma'am?¡¨ 
Mrs. Miklos smiled shyly, reset herself, and returned to prayer. The guard, clearly 
incensed, put both hands around the end of the stick, set herself, pulled the baton 
back, and stepped into her swing. 

Buck was barely able to hold his voice, and Albie had to grab and hold him back as 
the hardwood baton cracked loudly off the back of Mrs. Miklos's head. 
Blood splattered several of the women as Laslos's wife pitched forward, arms and 
legs twitching. Several women screamed. Many of the kneelers, even those with 
marks on their foreheads, stood and rushed to join the main group. One woman 
dropped to her knees to check on her injured friend, and the guard caught her just 
below her nose with a second vicious swing. 
Buck heard teeth shatter, and she cried out as the back of her head hit the floor and 
her hands came up to cover her face. 
The guard marched back to the front, the sea of women parting for her. 
Miraculously, Mrs. Miklos drew herself up to her hands and knees and slowly, 
majestically returned to her kneeling position, hands folded before her. 
With her back to the rest, the gaping wound, emitting great back issues of blood that 
ran down her hair and onto her sweater, was exposed to everyone. Most averted 
their eyes, but Buck stared at the white of her skull at the top of the laceration. Her 
skull had shattered and surely bone had been driven into her brain. And yet there 
she knelt, silently continuing to pray. 
The other woman, rolling onto her stomach, also slowly drew herself up, spitting 
teeth, blood gushing down her chin, and returned to prayer. Buck felt a tingle at the 
base of his spine, imagining the blinding pain. 
The guard retrieved her weapons with a look of satisfaction and exhilaration. The 
crowd behaved with a who-wants-to-be-next? attitude, and Alex said, ¡§We'll see 
who's strong enough to stand in the enforcement facilitator line.¡¨ 
Buck, his pulse racing and his breath coming in gasps, stood stock-still as Alex 
finally reached the pivotal question. ¡§Just so we'll know,¡¨ he said, ¡§how many will 
be rejecting the mark of loyalty and choosing the alternative?¡¨ 
Mrs. Miklos stood and turned to face him. Her face was drained of color, eyelids 
fluttering. Her chest heaved with the effort of merely breathing. Blood pooled 
behind her from the ugly wound. She shook like a victim of advanced Parkinson's, 
and yet she raised both hands, a beatific smile softening her macabre face. 
¡§You choose execution by guillotine rather than the mark of loyalty,¡¨ Alex clarified. 
The woman next to Laslos's wife, her face swelling, her nose red, upper teeth gone, 
stood and raised both hands, smiling a cadaverous grin. 
¡§Two of you then?¡¨ 
But there were more, and now the rest of the women stood just to see who was 
making the choice. From the original group of the kneeling devout stood a half 
dozen, smiling, hands lifted. ¡§You all want to die tonight?¡¨ Alex shouted, as if it 
was the most ridiculous thing he had ever heard. ¡§I'm counting eight. You eight 
will¡Xnow nine¡Xwill go to the extreme right when you¡Xall right, now ten¡Xwhen 

you are led to the processing center. OK, you can lower your hands now. Two more. 
OK, twelve of you. No need to keep your hands up!¡¨ 
A couple of women in front looked at each other and started toward the back, marks 
of the believer appearing on their foreheads as they lifted their hands. 
¡§All right,¡¨ Alex said. ¡§Those taking the mark stay left as we enter the center. 
Suicides stay to the right.¡¨ And as he said it, three more lined up behind the 
bleeding women. 
Buck fought tears. He could give in to emotion and wind up a martyr this very 
night, and in the heat of the moment, that didn't sound so bad. But he had a wife and 
a child and compatriots who counted on him. He stood blinking, panting, fighting to 
maintain control. These women were heroes of the faith. They would join the great 
blood-washed who literally made their bodies living sacrifices, soon to be martyred 
and appear under the very altar of God in heaven in snow-white robes of 
righteousness. He couldn't help but envy them! 
As the women were led out, Alex shouted over the din, ¡§You can change your 
mind! If you have chosen this ridiculous option and wish you hadn't, simply step out 
of one line and into the other!¡¨ 
But as the courageous filed past Buck, he saw the mark on each forehead and knew 
there would be no one turning back¡Xno, not one. He fell into step with the female 
guard leading the doomed to the guillotine line. This proved no end of fascination to 
the others, who stared as they themselves stood in the loyalty lines, deciding where 
they would bear the mark of Nicolae. 
When the guard moved past the head of the line to talk to the two men who would 
work the death machine, Buck stepped close to Mrs. Miklos and tried to appear as if 
he were interrogating her. ¡§Laslos wanted me to tell you he loves you with all of his 
heart and will see you in heaven.¡¨ 
She turned toward him with a start, blood still oozing down her back. She stared at 
the uniform and then at Buck's forehead. Then at his face. ¡§I know you,¡¨ she said. 
He nodded. 
¡§I don't believe you have met Mrs. Demeter,¡¨ she said. 
Buck was startled. The pastor's wife had taken the blow to the face. ¡§I'd shake your 
hand,¡¨ she whispered through her ruined mouth. ¡§But then you'd be in line with us.¡¨ 
Mrs. Miklos bent close to Buck. ¡§Tell Laslos thank you for leading me to Jesus. I 
see him. I see him. I see my Savior and can't wait to be with him!¡¨ 
With that her knees buckled and Buck caught her. The guard reappeared and 
grabbed her. ¡§No you don't, lady!¡¨ she said. ¡§You chose this, and you're going to 
take it standing up.¡¨ It was all Buck could do not to punch the woman in the face. 
She turned to him and said, ¡§What are we going to do with all these bodies? We 
weren't prepared for anything like this.¡¨ 

Buck headed to the back, where the guards were lined along the wall. This was the 
first they would see of any executions, and it was clear they weren't about to miss it. 
Albie joined him, clearly overcome. 
¡§That was Pastor D's wife with Mrs. Miklos.¡¨ 
Albie shook his head. ¡§They're champions, Buck. I don't know if I can watch this.¡¨ 
¡§Let's get out of here.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe we should be here with them.¡¨ 
¡§We shall start with enforcement,¡¨ Alex Athenas announced. ¡§Any who wish to 
switch lines may do so at any time. Ladies, once you have been secured in position 
in the apparatus, no change of mind will be honored. Inform someone before that or 
suffer the consequences.¡¨ 
Buck stood paralyzed as Mrs. Miklos was led to the ugly machine. ¡§Has that been 
tested?¡¨ Athenas shouted. ¡§I want no malfunctions.¡¨ 
¡§Affirmative!¡¨ answered the assistant, who would trade roles with the executioner 
with each victim. 
¡§Carry on!¡¨ 
From thirty feet away Buck read the lips of the executioner. ¡§Last chance, ma'am.¡¨ 
Laslos's wife knelt and the assistant positioned her. 
¡§Turn her around!¡¨ someone yelled. ¡§We want to see it happen!¡¨ 
Albie turned on the man. ¡§Shut up! This is not for your amusement!¡¨ 
The room fell tomb silent. In the stillness Buck heard Mrs. Miklos's delicate voice. 
¡§My Jesus, I love thee, I know thou art mine.¡¨ 
A sob attacked his throat. Seemingly all in one motion, the assistant fastened the 
clamp and stood quickly with both hands raised to indicate he was clear of the blade 
path while the other yanked the short cord. The heavy blade raced to the bottom of 
the shaft. Buck pushed past the others and out into the night air, disgusted at the 
cheer that met the sickening thud. 
He was glad for the vomit that gushed from him, allowing him to sob openly. Tears 
cascaded as he thought of the cold workmanlike crews that would remove heads and 
bodies and make room for the next and the next and the next. 
As he stood in the cool grass, convulsing now in dry heaves, he covered his ears in a 
vain attempt to muffle the thuds and cheers, thuds and cheers. Albie emerged and 
rested a hand on his back. His voice was thick as he bent and gently pulled Buck's 
hands away from his ears. 
¡§When I get to heaven,¡¨ he whispered, ¡§after Jesus, those women are the first 
people I want to see.¡¨ 

EIGHTEEN 
Chaim took to pacing around in the Strong Building, repeating lines over and over. 
He usually carried a Bible, Rayford noticed, but sometimes a commentary or his 
own notes. 
He didn't sound eloquent or forceful or confident to Rayford. It was as if all he was 
trying to accomplish was getting the basics down and having some idea what he 
was talking about. He also looked miserable, and Rayford wanted to counsel him 
again on where he stood with God, but he didn't feel qualified to make Chaim feel 
better about himself. Chaim apparently didn't see Tsion as a personal mentor but 
only as a teacher and tireless motivator. 
It struck Rayford that they all had had to endure the same doubts and fears when 
first they became believers. They had missed the truth, then feared they had come to 
God only as a last-ditch effort to avoid hell. Was it valid? The Bible said they were 
new creatures, that old things had passed away and all had become new. Rayford 
had worked hard to accept for himself the truth that God now saw him, in essence, 
through his sinless Son, the Christ. 
But it had been almost impossible. He was new inside, yes. From a spiritual 
standpoint he knew it was true. But in many ways he struggled with his same old 
self. And while God's truth about him should have carried more weight than his 
finite emotions, they were loudly at the forefront of his conscience every day. Who 
was he to tell Chaim Rosenzweig to just have faith and trust that God knew him and 
understood him better than Chaim himself ever could? 
But if there was someone who seemed healthier more quickly than most, it was 
Hattie. The irony of that was not lost on Rayford. Fewer than twenty-four hours 
before she became a believer, she was suicidal. Months before, she had admitted to 
any Trib Force member who had the endurance to debate her that she understood 
and believed the whole truth about the salvation gospel of Christ. She simply had 
decided, on her own, to willfully reject it because, even if God didn't seem to care 
that she didn't deserve it, she did care. She was saying, in effect, that God could 
offer her the forgiveness of her sins without qualification, but she didn't have to 
accept it. 
But once she finally received the gift, her mere persistence was wearing. In many 
ways she was the same forthright woman she had been before, nearly as obnoxious 
as a new believer as she had been as a holdout. But of course, everyone was happy 
she was finally on the team. 
Chaim, if Rayford could judge by facial expressions, was at least bemused by her. 
He was the next newest believer, so perhaps he identified with her. Yet Chaim was 
not responding as she was at all. Was it healthy envy that made him seem intrigued 
with her patter? Did he wonder why he hadn't been bestowed with such 

abandonment with his commitment to the truth? 
Rayford didn't want to get ahead of himself, didn't want to take too literally Tsion's 
compliments about his return to effective leadership. But sometimes the surprise 
move, the one against the groove, was effective. Should he¡Xdare he¡Xconspire 
with Hattie to get her to see if she could jostle Dr. Rosenzweig off of square one? 
Tsion had become convinced that Chaim was God's man for this time, and Rayford 
had learned to trust the rabbi's intuition. But Chaim was going to have to progress a 
long way in a short time if he was to become the vessel Tsion envisioned. 
Hattie had fed and was changing Kenny when Rayford approached her. What a 
bonus for Kenny that he had so many parent figures! The men doted on him, and 
even Zeke, though slightly intimidated, was extremely gentle and loving toward 
him. The women seemed intuitively to know when to spell each other, mothering 
him, but of course, most of the responsibility fell to Chloe. 
¡§Have a minute?¡¨ Rayford asked Hattie as she lay the freshly powdered and dressed 
boy over her shoulder and sat rocking him. 
¡§If this guy is drowsy, I've got all the time in the world, which¡Xaccording to our 
favorite rabbi¡Xis slightly less than three and a half years.¡¨ 
Hattie isn't as funny as she sees herself, Rayford thought, but there is something to 
be said for consistency. 
¡§Could I get you to do me a favor?¡¨ Rayford said. 
¡§Anything.¡¨ 
¡§Don't be too quick to say that, Hattie.¡¨ 
¡§I mean it. Anything. If it helps you, I'll do it.¡¨ 
¡§Well, if you succeed, it helps the cause.¡¨ 
¡§Say no more. I'm there.¡¨ 
¡§It has to do with Chaim.¡¨ 
¡§Isn't he the best?¡¨ 
¡§He's great, Hattie. But he needs something Tsion and I don't seem to be able to 
give him.¡¨ 
¡§Rayford! He's twice my age!¡¨ 
So as not to draw suspicion, Buck suggested he and Albie get a head start on the 
next group by heading directly to the building immediately east of the processing 
center. This housed the lesser criminals, according to the organizing officer. Yet he 
had also said that the religious dissidents were in with the worst felons in the 
easternmost facility. 
The two approached the guards at Building 4. ¡§Ready for us?¡¨ one said with a 
Cockney lilt. 

¡§Soon,¡¨ Buck said. ¡§You're next.¡¨ 
¡§Heard whooping and hollering. Somebody choose the blade?¡¨ 
Buck nodded but tried to make it clear he didn't want to talk about it. 
¡§More'n one?¡¨ the man added. Buck nodded again. ¡§Wasn't pretty.¡¨ 
¡§Yeah? Wish I'd seen it. Never saw somebody buy it before. You watched, eh?¡¨ 
¡§Told you it wasn't pretty. How would I know otherwise?¡¨ 
¡§Sorry I'm just askin'. How many you see then?¡¨ 
¡§Just the one.¡¨ 
¡§But there were more? How about you, Commander? You stay for the whole 
show?¡¨ 
¡§Leave it alone, Corporal,¡¨ Albie snapped. ¡§Several women chose it and showed 
more bravery than any man I ever saw.¡¨ 
¡§That right, is it? But they wasn't loyal to the potentate now then, was they?¡¨ 
¡§They stood by their convictions,¡¨ Albie said. 
¡§Convictions and sentences, sounds like to me, mate.¡¨ 
¡§Would you choose to die if you felt that deeply?¡¨ 
¡§I do feel that deeply, gents. Only I'm on the other side of it now, ain't I? I choose 
what makes sense. Man rises from the dead¡Xhe's got my vote.¡¨ 
The armed guards led the somber survivors back to the women's building while 
Athenas's crew caught up to Buck and Albie. Buck noticed that Alex's people 
seemed as subdued as the women prisoners. But their guards seemed energized. 
¡§Let's get this done,¡¨ Athenas said, leading the way in. 
These were clearly white-collar criminals or small-timers. No bravado, no threats, 
little noise at all. They listened, no one opted for the guillotine, and they filed out 
quietly to be processed. Buck was repulsed at the smell of blood that hung in the 
center. Word quietly spread throughout the men that several women had been 
beheaded in that very room, and the men grew even quieter. The workers assigned 
to the guillotine seemed relieved to have a break. 
Buck watched the process, despairing at the masses who ignorantly sealed their fate. 
The workers had grown smooth with experience, and the operation went faster and 
faster. Line up, decide, swab, sit, inject, back in line, file out. Ironically, real life 
bloomed at the point of bloody death. Men receiving what looked like an innocuous 
mark they thought kept them alive sealed their real death sentences. From death, 
life. From life, death. 
Buck was eager to meet Pastor Demeter, about whom Rayford had said so much. 
Yet he dreaded the confrontation with the worst of the worst criminals in Building 
5, knowing that many believing men would choose the right but ugly fate. 

His phone vibrated. The readout said, ¡§Top priority. Rendezvous at Kozani no 
earlier than 0100 hours with GC penal officer reassigned from Buffer to USNA. 
Urgent. Her papers will specify destination. Late twenties, dark hair, Ming Toy. 
Sealed.¡¨ 
¡§We'll have company tonight,¡¨ Buck told Albie. ¡§It will be refreshing to have a 
sister aboard who won't remind me of this place every time I look at her.¡¨ 
¡§I understand,¡¨ Albie said. ¡§I could have lived a lifetime without having seen this 
and not felt I missed a thing.¡¨ 
It was late afternoon at the safe house, and everyone was busy except Rayford. Zeke 
was sewing. Tsion writing. Chloe working on the computer. Leah copying. Chaim 
cramming. Kenny sleeping. And Hattie, with a wink to Rayford, approaching 
Chaim. 
The old man looked up at her from a couch, seemingly intrigued. Rayford sat 
nearby, ostensibly buried in a book. ¡§Ready for an interruption?¡¨ she said. ¡§Because 
I can't be dissuaded.¡¨ She sat on the floor near his feet. 
¡§As I don't appear to have a choice, Miss Durham, I could use a diversion. 
Something on your mind?¡¨ 
¡§You're new at this too,¡¨ she said, ¡§but I've noticed you're not all over the place 
talking about it.¡¨ 
¡§I'm on assignment. Heavy study load. You remember from college?¡¨ 
¡§Didn't finish. Wanted to see the world. But, hey, you won't let the studying get in 
the way of the thrill, will you? This has to be more than a class or that would take 
the fun out of it.¡¨ 
¡§Fun I don't associate with this. I came to the faith, you and I both did, at the worst 
possible time in history to enjoy it. It's about survival now. Joy comes later. Or if we 
had come to the faith before the Rapture, I could see where I might have enjoyed it 
more.¡¨ 
She scowled. ¡§I don't mean fun fun, like ha-ha fun. But we can let it reach us, can't 
we? Inside? Get to us?¡¨ 
He let his head bob from side to side. ¡§I suppose.¡¨ 
¡§Do you? Your eyes and your body language tell me you're still not with the 
picture.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, make no mistake. I'm in. I believe. I have the faith.¡¨ 
¡§But you don't have the joy.¡¨ 
¡§I told you about the joy.¡¨ 
¡§I can't debate a brain like you, but I'm not giving up on this. I don't care if you are 
ten times more educated¡XI want you to understand this.¡¨ 
¡§I'll try,¡¨ he said. ¡§What do you want me to agree with?¡¨ 

¡§Just that we have so much to be thankful for.¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I agree with that.¡¨ 
¡§But it has to thrill you!¡¨ 
¡§In its own way, it does. Or I should say, in my own way.¡¨ 
Hattie slumped and sighed. ¡§This is beyond me. I can't convince you. But I'm so 
thrilled that you are my brother, and I am on fire about what God is calling you to 
do.¡¨ 
¡§Now see, Miss Durham, that is where I suppose we differ or disagree. I have come 
to see that Tsion is right, that I am in a unique position to be involved in something 
strategic. I have resigned myself to the fact that it is inevitable and that I must do it. 
But I do not warm to it, long for it, look forward to it.¡¨ 
¡§I do!¡¨ 
¡§Listen to me now, Miss Durham.¡¨ 
¡§Sorry.¡¨ 
¡§I accept this mantle with great gravity and heaviness of heart. I am working not to 
be a coward or even reluctant or resistant. This is not something one should eagerly 
embrace as some sort of honor or achievement. Do you understand?¡¨ 
She nodded. ¡§You're right; I'm sure you are. But does it also humble you that God 
would choose you for something like this?¡¨ 
¡§Oh, I'm humbled all right. But there are times when I can identify with the Lord 
Messiah himself when he prayed and asked that if possible, his Father would let this 
cup pass from him.¡¨ 
Hattie nodded. ¡§But he also added, 'Not my will, but yours be done.' ¡¨ 
¡§He did indeed,¡¨ Chaim said. ¡§Pray for me that I will approach that same level of 
brokenness and willingness.¡¨ 
¡§Well,¡¨ she said, standing, ¡§I just want to tell you that I know God is going to do 
great things through you. I will be praying for you every step of the way.¡¨ 
Chaim seemed unable to speak. Finally his eyes filled and he rasped, ¡§Thank you 
very much, my young sister. That means more to me than I can say.¡¨ 
As Buck trudged into the last building, he found himself next to Alex Athenas, 
going over his notes. ¡§Ugly work,¡¨ Buck said. 
Alex grunted. ¡§Uglier than I thought. Who'd have guessed those women would be 
so resolute? We're going to run into some of their husbands now. We'll find out 
who's tougher.¡¨ 
¡§I find it hard to believe you've got religious dissidents in with hardened criminals.¡¨ 
¡§That's not my call. I've got one job here.¡¨ 
¡§I wouldn't want it.¡¨ 

¡§I didn't ask for it.¡¨ 
¡§Don't you agree the mix in this building is strange?¡¨ 
The others passed as Alex stopped and looked Buck full in the face, making him 
uncomfortable. ¡§Let me ask you something, Jensen. Have you ever talked to 
Nicolae Carpathia?¡¨ 
Buck froze. Why would he guess that? ¡§It's been a long time,¡¨ Buck said. 
¡§Well, I have. And he sees the dissidents as every bit as dangerous as the criminals. 
Well, they're both criminals.¡¨ 
¡§Murderers and people of faith?¡¨ 
¡§People of the wrong faith, the divisive faith, the intolerant faith.¡¨ 
Buck stepped closer. ¡§Alex, listen to yourself. You just sent more than a dozen 
women to their deaths because they don't share Nicolae Carpathia's faith. And you 
call them intolerant?¡¨ 
Alex stared back. ¡§I've got a mind to turn you in. You make me wonder about your 
loyalty.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe I'm wondering about it too. Whatever happened to freedom?¡¨ 
¡§We've still got freedom, Jack,¡¨ Alex spat. ¡§These people can decide for themselves 
whether they want to live or die.¡¨ 
Buck followed him in. This was by far the largest holding room, men of all ages 
milling about, talking. Buck noticed at least two dozen men with the mark of God 
on their foreheads, and they all seemed to be earnestly pleading with small groups 
of others. Strangely, the others seemed to be listening. 
Buck caught Albie's eye. ¡§See all of them?¡¨ he mouthed. Albie nodded sadly. It was 
great to see so many believers, but that meant more carnage was not far off. Buck 
wondered how he would identify Pastor Demeter without calling him out. 
He asked a guard, ¡§Who's the leader of the dissidents?¡¨ 
¡§The local Judah-ites?¡¨ 
Buck shrugged. ¡§That what they call them here?¡¨ The guard nodded and pointed to 
where a tall, dark-haired man was surrounded by at least a dozen others. He was 
speaking earnestly and quickly, gesturing. Rayford had said the man had the gift of 
evangelism, and he must have been exercising it with desperation. Buck moved to 
where he could hear. 
¡§ 'But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, 
Christ died for us.' That's you and me, gentlemen. I'm pleading with you not to take 
this mark. Receive Christ, get your sins forgiven, stake your claim with the God of 
the universe.¡¨ 
¡§It could cost us our lives,¡¨ one said. ¡§It will cost you your life, friend. You think I 
don't know this is a hard thing? Ask yourself, do I want to be with God in heaven 

this very night, or do I want to pledge my loyalty to Satan and never be able to 
change my mind? Tonight you'll be dead for an instant and then in the presence of 
God. Or you can live another few years and spend eternity in hell. The choice is 
yours.¡¨ 
¡§I want God,¡¨ a man said. 
¡§You know the consequences?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, hurry.¡¨ 
¡§Pray with me.¡¨ They knelt. 
¡§On your feet, everyone!¡¨ Alex called out. 
¡§God, I know I'm a sinner,¡¨ Pastor D began, and the man repeated it. 
¡§I said on your feet!¡¨ 
¡§Forgive my sins and come into my life and save me.¡¨ 
¡§Don't make me send a guard in there to break your heads!¡¨ 
¡§Thank you for sending your Son to die on the cross for me.¡¨ 
¡§All right, get in there!¡¨ 
¡§I accept your gift and receive you right now.¡¨ 
¡§Don't say I didn't warn you!¡¨ 
Buck noticed that other men were repeating the prayer too, though their eyes were 
open and they faced the front, standing. 
¡§Amen.¡¨ 
Just as the guard got to Pastor D, he stood and pulled the other man up. 
¡§You two listen up now!¡¨ 
As the guard left, Buck heard a man whisper, ¡§Pray that again.¡¨ 
Pastor D started in again, quietly, still appearing to be paying attention as Alex 
finished his information. All throughout the cage, other men were praying and 
leading others to do the same. The murmuring floated toward the guards, but it was 
hard to pin on one person. 
¡§I need to know if any of you will be rejecting the mark of loyalty so we can get 
you in the right line now!¡¨ 
¡§Put me in the other line!¡¨ Pastor D called out. 
¡§You're rejecting?¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir!¡¨ 
¡§You understand the consequences?¡¨ 
¡§Yes. I reject the authority of the ruler of this world and wish to¡X¡¨ 
¡§I didn't ask for your philosophy, sir. Just get in the line to my right as¡X¡¨ 

¡§I wish to pledge my allegiance to the true and living God and his Son, Jesus 
Christ!¡¨ 
¡§I said be quiet!¡¨ 
¡§He is the one who offers the free gift of salvation to anyone who believes!¡¨ 
¡§Silence that man!¡¨ 
¡§What are you going to do, kill me twice? Oh, that I could die twice for my God!¡¨ 
¡§Anyone else?¡¨ 
¡§Me!¡¨ 
¡§Me too!¡¨ 
¡§Count me in!¡¨ 
¡§Sign me up!¡¨ 
And one after the other, as the men chose their own deaths, they began to holler 
their reasons. 
¡§I just became a believer tonight, right here! Do it, men! It's true! God loves you!¡¨ 
¡§Silence!¡¨ 
¡§I was arrested because I was worshiping God with fellow believers! God will never 
leave you or forsake you!¡¨ 
¡§Guards!¡¨ 
The guards followed Alex's men into the cage, throwing men to the ground, 
stomping their heads and faces. 
¡§Do not resist!¡¨ Pastor D shouted. ¡§We'll be out of our misery soon! May the very 
men who beat us listen to our report before it's too late!¡¨ 
He was smacked atop the head with a baton and crumbled to the floor. A criminal 
who Buck noticed did not have the seal of God on his forehead grabbed the guard 
around the neck from behind and threw him down as others climbed atop. 
¡§Don't resist, brothers!¡¨ a believer yelled. ¡§Just speak the truth!¡¨ 
But the unbelievers were rioting. ¡§I'm taking Carpathia's mark!¡¨ one screamed. ¡§But 
stop hurting these men! I'm a coward, but they are brave! Agree with them or not, 
they have more courage than any of us!¡¨ 
A guard jumped him and wrapped his arms around the man's head, a hand on his 
chin. He yanked until the neck snapped and the man fell dead. 
Alex, who remained outside the cage guarding his men's weapons, grabbed one and 
fired into the air, squelching the bravado of most unbelievers. ¡§I will authorize my 
people to shoot to kill!¡¨ he said. ¡§Now get to my left if you are accepting the mark 
of loyalty to the Global Community and our risen potentate. And get to the right 
if¡X¡¨ 

¡§There is one God and one Mediator between God and men, the Man Christ Jesus!¡¨ 
¡§Silence that man!¡¨ 
The believers helped Pastor D up, but he could not stand alone. They carried him to 
the front of the line to Alex's right, and dozens of others fell in behind. Suddenly 
they began singing, ¡§What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus! 
What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus!¡¨ 
¡§Herd them out! Shut them up! Guillotine line first! Move! Move!¡¨ 
¡§O precious is the flow, that makes me white as snow! No other fount I know! 
Nothing but the blood of Jesus!¡¨ 
As the line passed Buck, he grabbed Pastor D by the shirt and pulled him up, as if 
forcing him to walk. He whispered desperately in his ear, ¡§Jesus is risen!¡¨ 
Demetrius Demeter, he of the gift of evangelism, eyes rolling back, tongue thick, 
legs failing, mumbled, ¡§Christ is risen indeed!¡¨ 
Buck watched the staggering band, each with the seal of God on his forehead, 
march to the death room, singing of the blood of Jesus and accepting the blows. He 
could not follow them in, knew he could not endure witnessing the deaths of these 
saints, old and new. Eyes filling, he found Albie in the crowd and motioned with a 
nod that he should follow. They strode quickly to the jeep, but not soon enough to 
avoid hearing the first slide and thud and the cheering of the bloodthirsty crowd. 
Buck fired up the engine to drown out the sounds and squealed off into the night. 
He and Albie shared not a word as they raced south twenty-five miles to the airport 
at Kozani. Buck skidded to a stop by the motor pool and they leapt out, hurrying 
through the gate. 
¡§Key in it?¡¨ someone called, and Buck nodded, not trusting himself to speak. 
As he and Albie marched across the tarmac toward the runway and the hangar 
where their refueled jet awaited, Buck saw a tiny Asian woman sitting next to a 
huge suitcase and a smaller bag on a bench under a light pole. Something about the 
way the light illuminated her red, GC prison-system uniform made her look angelic. 
She appeared tentative when she saw them and stood, pulling her orders from her 
pocket. She was a sliver of reality, a link to life, to safety, a cup of cold water in a 
desert of despair. 
¡§Tell me you're Ming Toy,¡¨ Buck said brusquely, barely trusting his voice. 
¡§I am. Mr. Williams?¡¨ 
Buck nodded. 
¡§And Mr. Albie?¡¨ 
¡§Jensen and Elbaz until we board, ma'am, please,¡¨ Albie said, and Buck could tell 
he was just as ragged emotionally. 
¡§Let me see your papers,¡¨ Buck said, picking up her suitcase while Albie grabbed 

the other bag. 
¡§Let me carry something, gentlemen. You have no idea how I appreciate this.¡¨ 
¡§Until we get on that plane, Ms. Toy,¡¨ Albie said, ¡§we're just following orders and 
ferrying an employee from one assignment to another.¡¨ 
¡§I understand.¡¨ 
¡§Once we're on board, we can make nice.¡¨ 
Buck tossed her suitcase behind the backseat, then helped her aboard and pointed to 
a seat. As she buckled in, Albie slipped behind the controls. Buck sat next to him 
but did not strap himself in. He turned so his knees were between his chair and 
Albie's and grabbed a clipboard. 
He faced the silent woman behind him. ¡§Ms. Toy,¡¨ he said, and he began to sob. 
¡§We have to do a preflight checklist and get clearance for takeoff.¡¨ She squinted at 
him in much the same way he assumed she must deal with the prisoners at Buffer. 
She had to be wondering what in the world was wrong with this man. ¡§But once we 
are airborne,¡¨ he said between great gasps, ¡§we are going to tell you what a miracle 
you are and why we so badly needed you to be on this plane tonight.¡¨ He caught his 
breath and added, ¡§And we're going to tell you a story you won't believe.¡¨ 
NINETEEN 
David awoke every few hours, peeking at his clock. Finally, at 0600, he rolled out 
of bed, ran a hard five miles, ate, showered, and dressed. He was in his office by 
0730. 
¡§You change this appointment?¡¨ his assistant asked. 
¡§Yeah, sorry, Tiff. A conflict?¡¨ 
¡§No, just curious.¡¨ 
David called 4054, just to make sure Chang was still there and planning to come at 
0900. When David identified himself, Mrs. Wong said, ¡§Missah Wong not here 
right now. I have him call you back, OK?¡¨ 
¡§Is Chang there?¡¨ 
¡§No. Chang with father.¡¨ 
¡§Do you know where they are?¡¨ 
¡§See Missah Moon.¡¨ 
¡§They are with Mr. Moon now?¡¨ 
¡§I have him call you back.¡¨ 
¡§Ma'am, Mrs. Wong, are your husband and your son with Mr. Moon now?¡¨ 

¡§I no understand. Call Missah Moon.¡¨ 
David called Moon's office and was told Walter was in Personnel. Personnel told 
him the executives were in a meeting. ¡§Can you tell me if they have begun applying 
marks to new hires?¡¨ 
¡§Not that I know of, but that is supposed to be today, and that is what the meeting is 
about.¡¨ 
¡§Can you tell me if one of my candidates is there, ChangWong?¡¨ 
¡§I believe I did see him and his father in here this morning with Mr. Moon.¡¨ 
¡§Where are they now?¡¨ 
¡§I have no idea. Would you like their room number? They're staying here at¡X¡¨ 
¡§No, thanks. I really need to talk to Moon.¡¨ 
¡§I told you, sir, he is in a meeting with Personnel execs.¡¨ 
¡§It's an emergency.¡¨ 
¡§So you say.¡¨ 
¡§Ma'am, I am a director. Would you please interrupt the meeting and tell Mr. Moon 
I need to speak with him immediately.¡¨ 
¡§No.¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me?¡¨ 
¡§I have been in trouble for just that kind of thing before. If it's that important, you 
may feel free to interrupt the meeting yourself.¡¨ 
David slammed the phone down and jogged to Personnel. He found the conference 
room empty, then found the receptionist. She held him off with a raised hand as she 
handled another call. 
¡§Ask them to hold a second,¡¨ he said. ¡§This is important.¡¨ 
¡§Just a moment, please.¡¨ 
¡§Thank you! Now, I¡X¡¨ 
¡§I didn't put this call on hold to help you. I put them on hold to ask you to wait your 
turn.¡¨ 
¡§But I¡X¡¨ 
She held up a hand again and returned to her call. Another phone rang while she 
was finishing, and she went directly to it. David leaned across her desk and 
depressed the cradle button. 
¡§Director Hassid! I'll report you for this!¡¨ 
¡§You'd better get me fired before I get you fired,¡¨ he said. ¡§Now where is this 
meeting?¡¨ 

¡§I don't know.¡¨ 
¡§It's not here; where is it?¡¨ 
¡§Off-site, obviously.¡¨ 
¡§Where?¡¨ 
¡§I honestly don't know, but my guess would be the basement of Building D.¡¨ 
¡§That's a quarter mile from here! Why didn't you tell me it was there when you told 
me to interrupt it myself?¡¨ 
¡§I didn't know you'd actually do it.¡¨ 
Her phone rang again. 
¡§Don't answer that.¡¨ 
¡§It's my job.¡¨ 
¡§Answer it and it'll be your job. Why would the meeting be in D?¡¨ 
¡§I don't know that it is. I said it was a guess.¡¨ 
¡§Why might it be there?¡¨ 
¡§Because that's where they're setting up the loyalty mark application center.¡¨ And 
she answered her phone. 
David slammed both palms on her desk, making her jump and then apologize to the 
caller. As he pushed through the door, she called after him in a singsong tone. ¡§Oh, 
Director Hassid! You might want to take this call. It's your assistant.¡¨ 
He rushed back, only to get a condescending look. ¡§Like I'm going to let you use 
my phone.¡¨ She pointed to a phone on a table in the waiting area. 
¡§This is David.¡¨ 
¡§Hey. Just got a call from Walter Moon.¡¨ 
¡§Where is he?¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry. He didn't say and I didn't think to ask. Want me to find him?¡¨ 
¡§What did he want?¡¨ 
¡§He said he would be delivering your 0900 appointment personally, that he and the 
candidate's father were most excited about your interest, you know the drill.¡¨ 
¡§What was he doing with Moon this morning?¡¨ 
¡§No idea, sir, but I'll find out if you want.¡¨ 
¡§Find Moon and call me back on my cell.¡¨ 
David hurried to Building D and found the basement cordoned off. He had to use 
every line in the book to talk his way past Security. When he was finally able to 
peek through the double doors that led into a huge meeting room, he got his first 
glimpse of the setup for applying the mark. Crowd-control barricades were arranged 

to funnel people to processing points and finally to the cubicles where the last of the 
injection guns were being plugged in and tested. 
¡§What's all this for?¡¨ David asked a woman arranging chairs. 
¡§Oh, come on, you know.¡¨ 
¡§But why so big? I thought they were just doing new employees first.¡¨ 
She shrugged. ¡§The rest of us will be next. Might as well have everything in place 
and tested, huh? I can't wait. This is the dream of a lifetime.¡¨ 
¡§Have you seen Security Chief Moon this morning?¡¨ 
¡§Actually he was here a while ago.¡¨ 
¡§With anyone?¡¨ 
¡§Couldn't tell you who. Some guys from Personnel, I know.¡¨ 
¡§Anyone else?¡¨ 
She nodded. ¡§I didn't pay attention, though.¡¨ 
¡§Any idea where he is now?¡¨ 
She shook her head. ¡§I suppose you've heard the rumors, though.¡¨ 
¡§Tell me.¡¨ 
She smiled. ¡§You poor managers miss the gossip, don't you?¡¨ 
¡§We often do.¡¨ 
¡§I figure you start most of it, or at least your decisions do.¡¨ 
¡§Granted. What's the word this morning?¡¨ 
¡§That Moon's in line for Supreme Commander.¡¨ 
¡§You don't say.¡¨ 
¡§I like him. I think he'd be good at it.¡¨ 
David's cell phone vibrated and he excused himself. ¡§Moon's people now say he's in 
with Carpathia,¡¨ Tiffany said. 
¡§Alone?¡¨ 
¡§David, I'm sorry. I didn't ask. I'll find out whatever you want, but I have to know in 
advance what I'm looking for.¡¨ 
¡§My fault. Did they happen to say whether Walter is still bringing Chang at 0900?¡¨ 
¡§Yea! I know one! Yes.¡¨ 
¡§Really?¡¨ 
¡§Honest.¡¨ 
¡§Is Chang with him and Carpathia now?¡¨ 
¡§Sorry. No idea.¡¨ 

¡§I'm on my way back.¡¨ 
David used his cell phone as he walked and tried the Chang apartment again. This 
time Mr. Wong answered. Encouraged, David asked for Chang. ¡§He not available 
right now. He see you at nine, yes?¡¨ 
¡§That's right. Is he OK?¡¨ 
¡§Better than OK! Very excited! Missah Moon come get us to bring to see you.¡¨ 
¡§You're coming too?¡¨ 
¡§If OK. May I?¡¨ 
David sighed. ¡§Why not?¡¨ 
¡§No?¡¨ 
¡§Yeah, sure.¡¨ 
Back in his office, with fifteen minutes to spare, he patched in to Carpathia's office. 
The first thing he heard was Nicolae's voice. ¡§Hickman was a buffoon! I'm better 
off without him. I don't know what Leon was thinking.¡¨ 
¡§Probably that he was going to have your job and Jim would be easy to manage.¡¨ 
Carpathia laughed. ¡§You're a good judge of character, Walter. It came down to you 
and Suhail. He has an impressive resume, but he's so new to his current position.¡¨ 
¡§And can you trust a Pakistani? I don't understand those types.¡¨ 
¡§Who can you trust these days, Walter? Now listen, I don't know how you stand on 
pomp and circumstance, but I don't want to make a big deal of this. You'll have an 
appropriate office you won't have to share with anyone, but I just want to announce 
your appointment and not get into a lot of ceremony.¡¨ 
¡§Perfect,¡¨ Walter said. ¡§I don't want to take any attention from you, sir.¡¨ 
David thought Walter sounded disingenuous and almost palpably disappointed. He 
was right, though, in pandering to Carpathia's ego. No one was going to steal that 
thunder anyway. 
¡§Walter,¡¨ Carpathia said, ¡§how are we coming with the GCMM?¡¨ 
Moon sounded surprised. ¡§Sir, the Morale Monitors have been in place for a long 
time. I get input from them every day, and I know Suhail counts on their 
intelligence briefings.¡¨ 
It was clear Carpathia was impatient. ¡§Mr. Moon, surely you caught my drift 
recently when I spoke of mobilizing a great enforcement throng from every tribe 
and nation who would¡X¡¨ 
¡§Of course, Potentate. I am working with Chief Akbar now to¡X¡¨ 
¡§I don't believe it! You missed it! Walter, I am determined to surround myself with 
people who understand me intuitively!¡¨ 
¡§I'm sorry, Excellency. I¡X¡¨ 

¡§For all of Leon's foibles and idiosyncrasies, he is a man who stays with me, 
anticipating my needs and desires and strategies. Do you kn¡X¡¨ 
¡§That's the kind of subordinate I want to b¡X¡¨ 
¡§Don't interrupt me, please!¡¨ 
¡§I apologize.¡¨ 
¡§Do you know where Leon is now?¡¨ 
¡§I heard he had flown to the United European Sta¡X¡¨ 
¡§He is in Vatican City, Walter! He has called together the ten regional potentates 
and has asked each to bring his most trusted and loyal spiritual leader to join them 
in that former great bastion of Christianity.¡¨ 
¡§I don't underst¡X¡¨ 
¡§Of course you don't! Think, man! At this very moment I imagine Reverend 
Fortunato is kneeling in the Sistine Chapel, the sub-potentates and the spiritual 
leader from each region who will represent Carpathianism throughout the globe 
laying hands on him and committing him to the great task before him.¡¨ 
¡§I should like to have been there, Excellency.¡¨ 
¡§You're my chief of security and you didn't even know this! I'm going to make you 
Supreme Commander, but you have to get in step!¡¨ 
¡§I'll do my best.¡¨ 
¡§Leon called me at dawn, telling me with great relish that he had ordered destroyed 
every Vatican relic, every icon, every piece of artwork that paid homage to the 
impotent God of the Bible. There were those among the potentates and even among 
the Carpathianists who suggested that these so-called priceless treasures at least be 
moved here to the palace to preserve their worth and to remind us of history. 
History! I don't know when I've been prouder of Leon. Before he returns, the 
Vatican will be left no vestiges of any sort of tribute to any god but the one my 
people can see and touch and hear.¡¨ 
¡§Amen, Your Holiness. You are risen indeed.¡¨ 
¡§Of course, and the whole world was watching! Now when I spoke the other day of 
a host of enforcers, I wanted you to gather that I meant the very core of my most 
loyal troops, the GCMM. They are already armed. I want them supported! I want 
them fully equipped! I want you to marry them with our munitions so their 
monitoring will have teeth. They should be respected and revered to the point of 
fear.¡¨ 
¡§You want the citizenry afraid, sir?¡¨ 
¡§Walter! No man need fear me who loves and worships me. You know that.¡¨ 
¡§I do, sir.¡¨ 

¡§If any man, woman, young person, or child has reason to feel guilty when 
encountering a member of the Global Community Morale Monitoring Force, then 
yes, I want them shaking in their boots!¡¨ 
¡§I understand, Excellency.¡¨ 
¡§Do you, Walter? I really need to know.¡¨ 
¡§I absolutely do, sir.¡¨ 
¡§I don't care whom you replace yourself with as chief of security. All I want you to 
know is that I hold you personally responsible for carrying out this wish.¡¨ 
¡§Of giving more muscle to the GCMM.¡¨ 
¡§The understatement of the century.¡¨ 
¡§Any budget for this?¡¨ 
¡§Walter, you report directly to me. I control the globe politically, militarily, 
spiritually, and economically. I have a bottomless sea of resources. Spare not one 
Nick in your effort to make the GCMM the most powerful enforcement juggernaut 
the world has ever seen.¡¨ 
¡§Yes, sir!¡¨ 
¡§Have fun with it! Enjoy it! But don't dawdle. I want a full contingent, at least one 
hundred thousand fully equipped troops, in Israel when I return there in triumph.¡¨ 
¡§Sir, that is but days away.¡¨ 
¡§Do we not have the personnel?¡¨ 
¡§We do.¡¨ 
¡§Do we not have the armaments?¡¨ 
¡§We do. Are you lifting the embargo against showing military-style strength in the 
form of tanks, fighters, bombers, and other such?¡¨ 
¡§You're catching on, Walter. I want to crush resistance in Israel before it even 
arises. From whom should I expect opposition?¡¨ 
¡§The Judah-ites and¡X¡¨ 
¡§You've already told me they are unlikely to show their faces. They take their 
potshots from behind the trees of the Internet. From whom shall I expect flesh-andblood 
opposition within, say, Jerusalem itself? You know my plans.¡¨ 
¡§Not totally, sir.¡¨ 
¡§You know enough to know who will be outraged.¡¨ 
¡§The Orthodox, sir. The devout, religious Jews.¡¨ 
David heard chairs squeak, and it was obvious Carpathia had stood and Moon 
followed suit. ¡§Now, Walter. I ask you. How dangerous to me will be the funnylooking 
men with their beards and their braids and their skullcaps once they have 

seen one hundred thousand heavily armed troops, there to protect me and those who 
worship me?¡¨ 
¡§Not very, Excellency.¡¨ 
¡§Not very indeed, Walter. Good day to you.¡¨ 
David guessed Walter still had time to make their appointment. His goal was to 
schmooze Walter, flatter Mr. Wong, and somehow get rid of them so he could plot 
with Chang how to get out of there with the other four believers. He sat, earphones 
in place, ready to shut down his computer. But then he heard Carpathia humming, 
then singing, as if he were writing a song, trying a line, improving it, starting over. 
David listened, transfixed. 
Finally perfecting it, to a military-sounding tune Carpathia softly sang: 
Hail Carpathia, our lord and risen king; Hail Carpathia, rules o'er everything. We'll 
worship him until we die; He's our beloved Nicolae. Hail Carpathia, our lord and 
risen king. 
Just before midnight in Chicago only Rayford and Tsion were awake. All were 
excited about the expected return of Buck and Albie and their next new member, 
Ming Toy. Chloe and Leah asked to be awakened as soon as the chopper arrived. 
Tsion had been working all day on a new, though brief, message. ¡§I'm about to 
transmit it,¡¨ he told Rayford. ¡§But I'd appreciate your looking at it. It's an 
interesting study, but it's not for the beginners. We have hundreds of thousands of 
new believers joining our ranks every day, but I have to think also about moving the 
more mature ones from milk to meat. Perhaps the day will come when someone like 
Chaim can take over the teaching of the newest.¡¨ 
Rayford eagerly accepted Tsion's hard copy, always feeling privileged when he was 
among the first to get a glance at something a billion people would benefit from. 
Dear ones in Christ: 
From your letters to the message board, I sense some questions about certain 
passages and doctrines, one of which I address today. I am most encouraged that 
you are reading, studying, curious, and that you so plainly want to learn and grow as 
believers in Messiah. If you have placed your trust in Christ alone for salvation by 
grace through faith, you are a true tribulation saint. 
While we all rejoice in our new positions before God¡Xwe went from old to new, 
from death to life, from darkness to light¡Xno doubt all are sobered by the reality 
that we are living on borrowed time, now more than ever. 
I have gathered from many that one of your loftiest goals is to survive until the 
Glorious Appearing. I share that longing but wish to gently remind you that that is 
not our all in all. The apostle Paul said that to live is Christ but that to die is gain. 
While it would be thrilling beyond words to see the triumphant Lord Christ return to 
the earth and set up his thousand-year reign, I believe I could learn to deal with it if 

I were called to heaven in advance and saw it from that perspective instead. 
Beloved, our top priority now is not even thwarting the evils of Antichrist, though I 
engage in that effort every day. I want to confound him, revile him, enrage him, 
frustrate him, and get in the way of his plans every way I know how. His primary 
goal is ascendancy for himself, worship of himself, and the death and destruction of 
any who might otherwise become tribulation saints. 
So, as worthy and noble a goal as it is to go on the offensive against the evil one, I 
believe we can do that most effectively by focusing on persuading the undecided to 
come to faith. Knowing that every day could be our last, that we could be found out 
and dragged to a mark application center, there to make our decision to die for the 
sake of Christ, we must be more urgent about our task than ever. 
Many have written in fear, confessing that they do not believe they have the courage 
or the character to choose death over life when threatened with the guillotine. As a 
fellow pilgrim in this journey of faith, let me admit that I do not understand this 
either. In my flesh I am weak. I want to live. I am afraid of death but even more of 
dying. The very thought of having my head severed from my body repulses me as 
much as it does anyone. In my worst nightmare I see myself standing before the GC 
operatives a weakling, a quivering mass who can do nothing but plead for his life. I 
envision myself breaking God's heart by denying my Lord. Oh, what an awful 
picture! 
In my most hated imagination I fail at the hour of testing and accept the mark of 
loyalty that we all know is the cursed mark of the beast, all because I so cherish my 
own life. 
Is that your fear today, friend? Are you all right as long as you are in hiding and 
somehow able to survive? But have you a foreboding about that day when you will 
be forced to publicly declare your faith or deny your Savior? 
I have good news for you that I have already admitted is difficult to understand, 
even for me, who has been called to shepherd you and exposit the Word of God for 
you. The Bible tells us that once one is either sealed by God as a believer or accepts 
the mark of loyalty to Antichrist, this is a once-and-for-all choice. In other words, if 
you have decided for Christ and the seal of God is evident on your forehead, you 
cannot change your mind! 
That tells me that somehow, when we face the ultimate test, God miraculously 
overcomes our evil, selfish flesh and gives us the grace and courage to make the 
right decision in spite of ourselves. My interpretation of this is that we will be 
unable to deny Jesus, unable to even choose the mark that would temporarily save 
our lives. 
Isn't that a blessed thought? I could no more do this in my flesh than I could swim 
the Pacific. I have heard stories of believers from the past who were asked at 
gunpoint to denounce their faith, and yet they stood firm, dying for it. I never 
envisioned myself with that kind of fortitude. 

Even since writing to you last, I have heard the story of one who was among the 
first to face this test. We have no eyewitness account, no one to tell us how the 
scene unfolded. Yet we know that of all the people herded through the mark 
application process at this specific venue (which I naturally have to keep 
confidential), only one man rejected the mark. Knowing the consequences, he chose 
to die rather than to deny Jesus Christ. 
My heart is broken for his loved ones. What an awful mental image to season one's 
bereavement! And yet how thrilling to know that God was faithful! He was there at 
the darkest hour. And this beloved saint is one of the martyrs under the altar of God, 
his robe snow white. 
As Antichrist and the false prophet spread their message of lies and hatred and false 
doctrine around the world, forcing millions to worship Satan himself by threatening 
to behead those who refuse, it would bode well for us if we would memorize a verse 
from John's Revelation. In chapter 20 and verse 4, he writes as part of his Godgiven 
vision: 
¡§Then I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their witness to Jesus and 
for the word of God, who had not worshiped the beast or his image, and had not 
received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands. And they lived and reigned 
with Christ for a thousand years.¡¨ 
Your loved ones who have been called to what the world would call an ignoble and 
gory end shall return with Christ at his Glorious Appearing! They shall live and 
reign with him for a thousand years! Glory be to God the Father and his Son, Jesus 
the Christ! 
And as for you and me, my friend: might we be among those? Oh, the privilege! 
Revelation 14:12-13: ¡§Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the 
commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. Then I heard a voice from heaven 
saying to me, 'Write: ¡¨Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.¡§' 
'Yes,' says the Spirit, 'that they may rest from their labors, and their works follow 
them.' ¡¨ 
And what of those who enjoy for a season the favor of the ruler of this world? What 
of those who avoid the guillotine and seem to prosper? As rousing as the Scriptures 
can be for those who are washed in the blood of the Lamb, look how fearful it can 
be for those who choose their own way. In Revelation 14:9-11, John quotes an 
angel, ¡§saying with a loud voice, 'If anyone worships the beast and his image, and 
receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, he himself shall also drink of the 
wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of His 
indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the 
holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment 
ascends forever and ever; and they have no rest day or night, who worship the beast 
and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.' ¡¨ 

You don't have to be a Bible scholar to understand that. 
Now, precious brothers and sisters, let me try to make plain some passages that have 
resulted in questions from many of you. In Psalm 69:28, the psalmist pleads with 
the Lord concerning his enemies: ¡§Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, 
and not be written with the righteous.¡¨ 
Exodus 32:33 says, ¡§And the Lord said to Moses, 'Whoever has sinned against Me, 
I will blot him out of My book.' ¡¨ 
These references naturally have caused some to fear that they can lose their 
salvation. But my contention is that the book referred to in those is the book of God 
the Father, into which are written the names of every person he created. 
The New Testament refers to the Book of Life of the Lamb, and we know that the 
Lamb is Jesus, for he is the one John the Baptist was referring to (John 1:29) when 
he said, ¡§Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!¡¨ 
Jesus the Christ came into the world to save sinners, and thus the Book of Life of 
the Lamb is the one in which are entered the names of those who have received his 
gift of eternal life. 
The most important difference between these two books is that it is clear a person 
can have his name blotted out of the Book of the Living. But in Revelation 3:5, 
Jesus himself promises, ¡§He who overcomes shall be clothed in white garments, and 
I will not blot out his name from the Book of Life; but I will confess his name 
before My Father and before His angels.¡¨ 
The overcomers he is referring to are those clothed in the white garments of Christ 
himself, guaranteeing that their names cannot be blotted out of the Book of Life of 
the Lamb. 
To me the Book of the Living is a picture of the mercy of God. It is as if in loving 
anticipation of our salvation, he writes every person's name in that book. If one dies 
without trusting Christ for salvation, his name is blotted out, because he is no longer 
among the living. But those who have trusted Christ have been written in the 
Lamb's Book of Life, so that when they die physically, they remain alive spiritually 
and are never blotted out. 
Rayford had to admit to himself that he had also worried about his own response if 
he were to face the guillotine. He wanted to be true and faithful to the one who died 
for him, and he wanted to see his family again. But if he failed and proved a 
coward, he had wondered whether he would lose his standing before God. 
¡§Tsion,¡¨ he said, ¡§I wouldn't change a word. This will uplift and comfort millions. It 
sure helped me.¡¨ 
TWENTY 

David couldn't sit still. How was he going to pull this off? Maybe he should act 
uninterested in Chang as an employee. Would anybody fall for that? He stood and 
paced, straightening his tie and buttoning his uniform jacket. 
When Moon, Mr. Wong, and Chang finally arrived, David was disconcerted at 
Chang's appearance. A slight, fair-skinned seventeen-year-old, he wore khakis, a 
plain shirt, a light jacket zipped to the neck, and a red baseball cap pulled low over 
his eyes. He was clearly angry, his eyes darting everywhere but at David. 
Moon and Mr. Wong were giddy, laughing, talking loudly. ¡§Ever see a boy so 
afraid?¡¨ Mr. Wong said. ¡§Can't say I have!¡¨ 
Tiffany ushered them in, and David shook hands, first with Walter, then Mr. Wong, 
who said, ¡§Hat off for meeting, Chang.¡¨ 
For the first time since he had seen them interact at the Carpathia funeral, David 
saw Chang ignore his father. The elder reddened and lost his smile, then faked one, 
pumping David's hand. ¡§Made hat come off for picture!¡¨ 
Moon laughed at the memory of it, whatever it was. 
David thrust his hand toward Chang, who ignored it. He stood looking down. His 
father nearly exploded. ¡§Shake hands with boss, Chang!¡¨ 
The boy lazily reached out, but he did not grip when David did, and it was like 
shaking a fish. David thought he saw a tear slide next to the boy's mouth. Maybe 
this was for the best. If David were to try to bust him out of the place in a few days, 
it would be better if they didn't act civil to each other. 
Walter Moon said, ¡§He is risen.¡¨ 
Mr. Wong and David responded, ¡§He is risen indeed.¡¨ David was startled to hear 
Chang mutter, ¡§Christ is risen indeed.¡¨ 
Chang may have considered that godly courage, but David saw it as teenage 
recklessness. No one else seemed to have heard it. 
¡§Sit, please, gentlemen,¡¨ David said. ¡§I'd like to spend time alone with the 
candidate, but it's probably just as well you're both here, Chief Moon and Mr. 
Wong. I've been studying the personnel manual, and frankly, I don't see any way 
around the age issue.¡¨ 
¡§Age issue?¡¨ Mr. Wong said, looking stricken. ¡§What's that?¡¨ 
¡§Good,¡¨ Chang said and rose to leave. 
¡§Sit! Mind manners! You guest here and interview for position!¡¨ 
Chang slowly plopped back, slouching and crossing his feet. 
Moon dismissed David's concern with a gesture. ¡§His Excellency has already 
waived that, and¡X¡¨ 
¡§The policy allows no exceptions,¡¨ David pressed. 

¡§David,¡¨ Walter said slowly, reminding him of the way he had just heard Carpathia 
speak to Moon, ¡§the potentate is policy. If he determines that this young man and 
his off-the-charts intellect and computer savvy will be valuable to the Global 
Community, then it's a done deal.¡¨ 
David took a breath, deciding to go on the offensive. 
But Moon wasn't finished. ¡§You're aware that Potentate Carpathia has already 
cleared Chang to finish his last year of high school here, and of course we then offer 
college classes as well.¡¨ 
¡§I was under the impression the school here was for the benefit of the children of 
employees,¡¨ David tried. 
¡§I don't think the teachers care who the students' parents are. Tell Mr. Wong what 
you are envisioning for Chang, David.¡¨ 
Mr. Wong, grinning, leaned forward to drink it in. 
Here goes nothing, David thought. ¡§I envision him finishing high school in China 
and at least beginning his career anywhere but here.¡¨ 
Mr. Wong's smile disappeared. ¡§What?¡¨ he said, turning to Moon. 
¡§David!¡¨ Walter said. ¡§What the¡X¡¨ 
¡§Look at him,¡¨ David said, and both men turned to see Chang staring at the floor, 
hands in his pockets. 
¡§Sit up, boy. You know better. You shame me.¡¨ 
Chang made a halfhearted effort to shift and raised his chin an inch, but he remained 
a picture of insolence. His father reached to tug at the shoulder of his jacket, and 
Chang wrenched away. Mr. Wong glowered at him. 
¡§He doesn't want to work here,¡¨ David said. ¡§He's young, immature, simply not 
ready. I don't doubt his credentials or his potential, but let him work out the kinks 
on someone else's money.¡¨ 
¡§Now, let's not be hasty, David,¡¨ Moon said. ¡§The boy's just been through a bit of a 
trauma. He was scared, but he went through with it, and he's clearly still a little 
shaken.¡¨ 
David cocked his head as if willing to consider the excuse. ¡§Oh?¡¨ 
¡§Yes,¡¨ Mr. Wong said. ¡§He upset. He frightened of needle. Didn't want injection. 
Scream. Cry. Try to get away, but we hold him down. He thank me someday. 
Maybe tomorrow.¡¨ 
¡§And he needed an injection for what?¡¨ 
¡§Biochip!¡¨ Mr. Wong announced proudly. ¡§One of first to get it! See?¡¨ 
He reached for the boy's cap, but Chang stood again and turned his back on his 
father. David fought to maintain composure. Now what? How had he let this 

happen? 
¡§When?¡¨ he blurted. ¡§How?¡¨ 
¡§This morning,¡¨ Walter said. ¡§I was hoping they'd be ready for him. Took a photo 
along and everything. But they weren't, not really. We were going to just wait till 
later, but they could see I had gone to a lot of trouble, so when the first unit was 
plugged in and ready to go, they tested it and then made him the first recipient here. 
Not sure the picture's much good though. The boy wasn't any happier there than 
here.¡¨ 
David said, ¡§Well, that's ... ah ... that's¡X¡¨ 
¡§Something, huh?¡¨ Walter said. ¡§I think the boy is glad to have it over with, and if 
he's honest he'll admit it didn't hurt a bit.¡¨ 
¡§I proud! Son will be soon, you'll see. But he ready for work now. No age problem. 
No school problem. This is place for him.¡¨ 
¡§Global Community maybe,¡¨ David said, his voice hollow. How was he going to 
explain this to Ming? ¡§But not my department.¡¨ 
¡§Don't be ridiculous, David. We just explained his attitude. You and I both know 
there's no better place for him.¡¨ 
¡§Then you take him. I don't want him. I don't have the energy to try to win him over 
while training him.¡¨ 
¡§I'm of a mind to take him, David. He's going to make somebody look like a genius. 
It had might as well be me.¡¨ 
David stood and spread his arms, palms up. ¡§Good to see you all again.¡¨ 
Chang started to rise, but his father stopped him with a hand. The man looked to 
Walter. ¡§David, sit down,¡¨ Moon said. ¡§Let us give you a few minutes with Chang, 
let him win you over.¡¨ 
¡§There aren't enough flowers or boxes of candy in the United Asian States.¡¨ 
¡§Find out what's troubling him. If it's just the trauma of the procedure, he deserves 
another look. What do you say?¡¨ 
¡§I suppose you'll go running to the potentate if I don't agree.¡¨ 
Moon stood and motioned David to do the same. He reached for him across the desk 
and pulled David's ear to his mouth. ¡§This is no way for us to conduct ourselves in 
front of outsiders, particularly a patriotic GC supporter like Mr. Wong. You're 
blamed right I'll take this straight back to the top. Now you know Carp¡XHis 
Excellency wants this boy on staff, so get with the program.¡¨ He let go of David and 
turned to Mr. Wong. ¡§Let's give them a few minutes to get acquainted.¡¨ 
Mr. Wong bent to his son as he left. ¡§You make proud, and I mean it.¡¨ But Chang 
looked away. 
As soon as the door was shut, Chang stood and moved to the center chair facing 

David. He resumed his defiant posture. David sat and rested an elbow on the desk, 
chin in hand, staring at Chang, who did not meet his gaze. ¡§Are the blinds open 
behind me?¡¨ the kid muttered, still looking away. 
¡§Yes.¡¨ 
¡§Close them.¡¨ 
¡§That would send a wrong signal, Chang. If they're watching, I want them to see me 
not liking you too much, which is exactly what I feel right now.¡¨ 
¡§Are they still out there?¡¨ 
¡§Yes.¡¨ 
¡§Then either shut the blinds or tell me when they're gone.¡¨ 
¡§They're leaving.¡¨ 
¡§OK, then wait till they're out of sight so you can close the blinds without sending 
them the wrong signal but I still don't have to worry about anyone else coming by 
and looking in. Or your secretary.¡¨ 
¡§Assistant.¡¨ 
¡§Whatever. Tiffany, right?¡¨ 
¡§Observant.¡¨ 
¡§I don't miss anything, like the fact that she's not a believer.¡¨ 
¡§I'm trying to figure out a way to work on that.¡¨ 
It was maddening that Chang still sat slumped, looking down. ¡§You can't let her in 
on where you stand for fear she'll turn you in.¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§Could you shut the blinds, please?¡¨ 
¡§Not till you tell me what in the world you think you're up to.¡¨ 
¡§I'll wait,¡¨ Chang said. 
David rose and closed the blinds. ¡§What was I supposed to do, son? I didn't 
know¡X¡¨ 
As David returned to his side of the desk, Chang straightened up. ¡§Don't call me 
son. I hate that.¡¨ He whipped off his hat. ¡§Look at me! Look what they did to me!¡¨ 
David leaned over the desk to study Chang's mark of loyalty. It was the first he had 
seen other than in a drawing. ¡§That is strange,¡¨ he said. 
¡§That's news to me?¡¨ 
¡§No, I mean, obviously it looks different to me and will to any fellow believers. We 
can see both marks. The seal of God is still there, Chang.¡¨ David could barely take 
his eyes off the small, black tattoo that read 30 and was followed by a half-inch pink 
scar that would fade to a darker line in a few days. ¡§I still haven't figured the 

significance of the prefixes,¡¨ David added. 
¡§You serious?¡¨ 
¡§Always.¡¨ 
¡§Don't tell me you don't even know why Carpathia is so obsessed with 216.¡¨ 
¡§Of course,¡¨ David said. ¡§That was rather transparent. Easy.¡¨ 
¡§Same basic logic as these. Ten different regions or sub-potentateships, as Carpathia 
likes to call them. We know them as kingdoms. Ten different prefixes, all related to 
Carpathia. I mean, the fact that one of them is 216 should have been your first clue.¡¨ 
¡§Don't tell me, Chang. I'll get it.¡¨ 
¡§Should have had it by now.¡¨ 
¡§You can lighten up on me. I don't know how I could have prevented this. Your 
little charade didn't help. Your sister is going to kill me. And, assuming you want 
out of here as badly as Ming wants you out and as badly as the other four believers 
want out, how did that help?¡¨ 
¡§Can you believe my father and Moon thought I pitched a fit because I was afraid of 
needles?¡¨ 
¡§I'm glad you didn't just scream out that you're a believer.¡¨ 
¡§Well, what am I now, Hassid?¡¨ 
¡§You don't like to be called son¡Xdon't call me Hassid.¡¨ 
¡§Sorry. What's your pleasure?¡¨ 
¡§Mr. Hassid or Director Hassid while we're in here. Once we're gone, Mr. or 
Brother will work.¡¨ 
¡§You sound like an old guy.¡¨ 
¡§That's because you're a young guy. As for what you are, with both marks you 
surely have to be in a special category.¡¨ 
¡§But all that stuff Dr. Ben-Judah writes about, choosing between the seal of God 
and the mark of the beast. I chose, and I got both. Now what?¡¨ 
David sat shaking his head. Chang cocked his head and pursed his lips. ¡§It isn't that 
I really don't know, Mr. Hassid. I just keep testing you. Are you not as bright as 
they think you are, or are you just short on sleep? Can't figure the prefixes, can't 
figure¡X¡¨ 
¡§First, I'm not as bright as they think I am, but I might surprise you.¡¨ 
¡§I'm not trying to be disrespectful, sir. I'm really not. But you have already surprised 
me by how long it takes you to make things make sense.¡¨ 
¡§I've also been under unusual pressure for months, and worse the last couple of 
weeks.¡¨ 

¡§Yeah. I'm sorry about your, ah, were you engaged? Was she your fiancee?¡¨ 
¡§Secretly, yes. Thanks.¡¨ 
¡§That would put anybody off track for a while. That's understandable.¡¨ 
¡§So, you're mad you got the mark, but you've already made some sense of it?¡¨ 
Chang sat back and crossed his legs. ¡§You know Ben-Judah personally, huh?¡¨ 
¡§Haven't met him, but we work together.¡¨ 
¡§You have his phone number?¡¨ 
¡§Of course.¡¨ 
¡§Well, you might want to call him to confirm, or let me borrow the number and I'll 
talk to him myself. ...¡¨ 
¡§I don't think so.¡¨ 
¡§Fair enough. You call him then and see if I'm right. I'm a believer. That hasn't 
changed. The Bible says nothing can separate us from the love of Christ, and that 
has to include our own selves. And God says we're hidden in the hollow of his hand 
and that no one can pluck us out. I didn't choose the mark. It was forced on me. I 
see nothing but benefits.¡¨ 
¡§Then why the big scene?¡¨ 
¡§I don't figure everything out immediately. I sure didn't want the mark. I was trying 
to figure a way to get out of it right up to the time they stuck me. I don't have to like 
it, but what's done is done, and a smart guy like you ought to be able to see the 
upside of this.¡¨ 
¡§Tell me, oh great intellect.¡¨ 
¡§So mock me. Forget it. I shouldn't have to tell you anyway.¡¨ 
David stood and moved to the front of the desk and sat atop it, his knees inches 
from Chang's. ¡§All right, listen. It's obvious you're a mental prodigy, mind like a 
steel trap, all that. I'd heard you were a Bible-memory freak, which is saying 
something when you can't risk being caught with one. All that from reading it on the 
Net?¡¨ 
Chang nodded. 
David continued. ¡§I'm not hung up on being the smartest guy in the room no matter 
where I am. That didn't used to be so, especially when I was your age. I enjoyed not 
only overwhelming older people with my brain but letting them know that we both 
knew who was the king. You want me on the floor, kissing your feet? Fine. You're 
the best. You're smarter than I am. I'm a journeyman, a plugger compared to you. 
That what you want to hear? It doesn't bother me that you're a few steps ahead of 
me¡Xit really doesn't. What bothers me is your assuming it bothers me, because it 
would bother you if the shoe were on the other foot. Then I get defensive, trying to 
prove it doesn't bother me, which only makes it appear that it does. You following 

this?¡¨ 
Chang smiled. ¡§Yeah, I got it.¡¨ 
¡§So enlighten me and quit trying to rub it in. What are you going to do with this 
'advantage,' as you call it, being bi-loyal for lack of a better term? And how does 
acting angry with me help that cause, whatever it is?¡¨ 
¡§Glad you asked. May I take it from the top?¡¨ 
David nodded. 
¡§First, I like the term. Bi-loyal. That's the way it appears. This forehead is going to 
really bother fellow believers. They can only assume the seal mark is fake, because 
no one would fake the mark of the beast. They're going to take some persuading, 
and if I were them, I might never trust me. 
¡§But the Carpathia loyalists . . . they can't see the mark of God, and they have no 
reason to believe the loyalty mark is anything but what it appears. Therefore, I am 
free to live among them¡Xbuy and sell, come and go, even work here¡Xwithout 
suspicion and¡Xif I'm careful¡Xwithout risk.¡¨ 
¡§You're good, Chang. But that last was very teenage thinking.¡¨ 
Chang appeared to think about that, then nodded his concession. ¡§Maybe so. Too 
bad I won't have an old guy like you around to keep me from being too tempestuous 
and impulsive.¡¨ 
¡§I'm starting to feel ancient.¡¨ 
¡§You are, Director. Think about how few years you have left on this earth as we 
know it.¡¨ 
¡§Funny.¡¨ 
¡§Question is, how do you and your three friends get out of here, and how do I get 
your job?¡¨ 
¡§You're not going to get my job.¡¨ 
¡§I could do it.¡¨ 
¡§Maybe you could, but not even Carpathia is foolhardy enough to risk that. You 
have to work your way up, and I have an idea who might take my spot anyway. 
You'd wind up working for him.¡¨ 
¡§That's too bad; if you're right.¡¨ 
¡§I'm right. You're so smart, have some common sense. They're not going to put a 
teenager in a director's chair. They're just not. Think about it. I'm the youngest 
director now by eight years.¡¨ 
¡§Congratulations.¡¨ 
¡§That's not the point. If you're going to stay here and be a better mole than I 
was¡Xbecause the mark gives you unquestioned credibility¡Xyou have to be 

strategic. Pick your spots. Do what you can.¡¨ 
¡§Which is what, in your opinion?¡¨ 
¡§I can teach you everything I know before I leave.¡¨ A smile played at Chang's lips. 
¡§What?¡¨ David said. ¡§I know you're dying to say something.¡¨ 
¡§Just that you teaching me everything you know shouldn't take long. It's a joke. 
C'mon.¡¨ 
¡§A real comedian. Well, for as limited as I am, I'd like to think you'll be amazed by 
what I've done here and what I have in place. My biggest worry is that my remote 
access is only good for as long as they stay with the current system.¡¨ 
¡§You don't have to worry about that anymore,¡¨ Chang said. ¡§Because?¡¨ 
¡§I'll be here.¡¨ 
¡§But you're not going to be a director. It won't be your call what system they stay 
with or change to.¡¨ 
¡§But I can adapt what you've put in place to work with it, either way.¡¨ 
¡§You probably could.¡¨ 
¡§I know I could.¡¨ David covered his mouth with a hand, thinking. Why hadn't he 
recognized the possibilities right away? ¡§Some of your confidence is attractive. Part 
of it is off-putting.¡¨ 
¡§Most of it is an act, sir.¡¨ 
¡§Really?¡¨ 
¡§Sure. The whole thing in here was an act. Pushing your buttons was just for fun. 
I'm just showing you how I'd fit in here. Be a little sarcastic, a little condescending. 
Tweak people. You think they're going to suspect I'm a Judah-ite?¡¨ 
¡§I'm just wondering what's really inside you, Chang.¡¨ 
¡§What do you mean?¡¨ 
¡§Spiritually. Your sister is a tough prison guard.¡¨ 
¡§She could whip my tail.¡¨ 
¡§But she glows with a spirituality, a humility. She has a real Christ-like quality.¡¨ 
¡§Not around inmates she doesn't.¡¨ 
¡§I suppose not. But what about you, Chang? Do you know who you are and who 
you're not? Do you understand the depth of your own depravity and realize that God 
saved you while you were dead in your sins?¡¨ 
Chang nodded, maintaining eye contact. ¡§I know I could use a lot more 
introspection, but yes, I do know. And I appreciate your reminding me.¡¨ 
¡§All right, I have a plan, Chang.¡¨ 
¡§That's encouraging. So do I. But I had a little more time to think about mine, so 

you start.¡¨ 
¡§I'll start because I'm older, I outrank you, and I am interviewing you. You're not 
even an employee yet.¡¨ 
¡§I defer. Mine's going to be better anyway, so go ahead. . . . Kidding!¡¨ 
¡§I say you maintain the attitude in front of the people here and your father, but give 
him a little slack before he leaves. He needs to believe you're at least OK with being 
here. Don't act impressed with me.¡¨ 
¡§That won't be hard.¡¨ 
¡§All right!¡¨ 
¡§I'm listening.¡¨ 
¡§I'll bet. Come reluctantly to the conclusion that you want to work here and that you 
figure this is the most logical department to work in, though you're not impressed 
with it. You don't want to appear too eager. They're all excited about you, so let 
them stay that way. Play a little hard to get. As for me, I won't act much more 
thrilled than I did in front of Moon, and I'll just assign you to the guy I assume will 
replace me. After hours, you and I cram¡Xmostly by phone and E-mail¡Xand I'll 
show you what I've set up. During the day you work with him. Don't alienate him, 
because you'll quickly be his number-two guy. You might even want to govern 
yourself so you don't become too much of a star. Let him forget about you while 
trusting you. That way you'll be most valuable to our cause. Make sense?¡¨ 
¡§You thought of that just now?¡¨ 
¡§Don't start.¡¨ 
¡§I'm serious. Those were my thoughts exactly. And there's nothing I want more than 
to use every gift God gave me to be, like you said, valuable to the cause. Do I get to 
be a member of the Tribulation Force? Or would I have to live in the safe house for 
that?¡¨ 
¡§They consider me a member. Of course, this is like the nerve center and they 
depend on what we do here to pave the way for them to come and go and infiltrate.¡¨ 
¡§So they ought to adopt me soon enough.¡¨ 
¡§I would imagine.¡¨ 
¡§May I shake your hand, as long as no one is looking?¡¨ David reached for him, and 
Chang gripped hard. ¡§Don't take me too seriously. I just like to mess with people's 
minds.¡¨ 
¡§And I suppose few can compete,¡¨ David said. 
¡§Well, you sure can.¡¨ 
¡§I'm going to let you go and not do or say anything. Let them ask what I've decided. 
Then I'll reluctantly say I can use you if they insist. That way we keep maintaining 
distance.¡¨ 

¡§So when you escape, they won't think I had anything to do with it.¡¨ 
¡§Sort of. But actually¡X¡¨ 
¡§Excuse me, Mr. Hassid, but have you thought of making your disappearances look 
like something other than running from taking the mark?¡¨ 
David shook his head. ¡§You got another few minutes, Chang?¡¨ 
TWENTY-ONE 
One week before the resurrected Nicolae Carpathia's widely advertised triumphal 
return to Jerusalem, Rayford Steele called an 8 P.M. meeting of the stateside 
Tribulation Force at the commons near the elevators in the Strong Building. 
Grieving for the Greek pastor he had met only briefly and for Laslos's dear wife, he 
was nervous and fought to keep it from showing. God had restored him to 
leadership, and he was determined to fulfill his duty. As the others took their places, 
Rayford reviewed the dog-eared sheets of his legal pad and cleared his throat. He 
had not expected to become emotional and worried that it would detract from 
confidence in his command. But he couldn't control his shaky voice from the first 
word. 
Eleven were there, including Rayford, Buck, Chloe¡Xthe surviving three original 
Trib Force members¡Xand Kenny Bruce. In the order that they joined were also 
Tsion, Leah, Albie, Chaim, Zeke, Hattie, and Ming. 
¡§It's important,¡¨ Rayford said, ¡§that we always remember our extended family. In 
Greece, only Laslos remains. In New Babylon we have David, Mac, Abdullah, 
Hannah Palemoon, and Chang Wong. Maybe sooner than we think, we will all be 
together. Meanwhile, I am grateful to God for each one on this team.¡¨ 
Rayford asked Tsion to pray, and everyone in the room spontaneously either stood 
or knelt when he began. ¡§God, our Father, we come to you weak and frail and 
wounded. So many here have lost so much, and yet we are grateful to you for your 
grace and for your mercy. You are a good God, full of loving-kindness. We pray for 
every member of our family and especially for the plans you have for us in just 
seven days. 
¡§We are comforted by the realization that you care even more than we do about our 
loved ones. We look forward to when we shall see you face-to-face, and we pray 
you will allow us the joy of bringing many more with us. In the name of Jesus 
Christ. Amen.¡¨ 
As the rest settled back in their places, Rayford began again. ¡§I have assignments 
for everyone. The following will remain here during what we're calling Operation 
Eagle: Chloe and Kenny, Ming, Zeke, and Tsion. I foresee using Ming more, but for 

now her being AWOL from the GC penal system makes her too vulnerable. 
Changing her appearance is going to be a true test of Zeke's skills. 
¡§Meanwhile, he has created new personas, looks, names, and documents for all who 
need them. 
¡§Albie and I will fly the fighter and the Gulf stream to Mizpe Ramon in the Negev 
tomorrow to supervise the completion of a remote airstrip and refueling center for 
the airlift. Buck and Chaim will fly commercially to Jerusalem in disguise and 
under aliases. Chaim will settle into the rebuilt King David Hotel, waiting to 
confront Carpathia when he enters Jerusalem. Buck will go on to Tel Aviv and be 
back in Jerusalem in time for Carpathia's return. 
¡§Hattie and Leah will fly commercially to Tel Aviv, where they will process the 
volunteer vehicles and drivers who will help evacuate believers from Jerusalem to 
the planes in the Negev when it becomes necessary. They will also monitor 
Carpathia's arrival, and, like Buck, Hattie will join the crowd watching the air show 
our New Babylon brothers and sister plan to perform for the potentate and follow 
the Carpathia entourage to Jerusalem. 
¡§Leah will use a rented vehicle to rendezvous with the New Babylon four in Jordan 
at the former Queen Alia International Airport, now known as Resurrection 
International. She will bring the New Babylon contingent to the airlift site, and they 
will fly back to the States with Albie and me at the conclusion of the airlift. 
Questions?¡¨ 
Chaim raised a hand. ¡§I have only a thousand questions. But is it not time for my 
teacher, who ought to be respectful of his elder, to reveal the city of refuge?¡¨ 
Tsion smiled and looked to Rayford. ¡§Soon everyone must know where the fleeing 
saints are headed after they have reached the airlift location in the Negev. Yes, 
Chaim, you have devoted yourself to your studies and deserve to know where you 
will lead the people. It is a city you have known about all your life. You have no 
doubt heard many stories about it, and it would not surprise me to learn that you 
have actually visited it as a tourist. It is one of the most famous ancient cities in the 
Middle East. Some call it the Rose Red City.¡¨ 
Chaim's eyes came alive. ¡§Petra!¡¨ he said. ¡§In the ancient land of Edom!¡¨ 
¡§One and the same,¡¨ Tsion said. 
¡§I should have known. It will be difficult for us to get into, let alone a pursuing 
army.¡¨ 
¡§In fact, Chaim, God will make it impossible for them to get in. He has special 
obstacles planned, the likes of which have not been seen since the days of the first 
Exodus. Tell me, have you been to Petra?¡¨ 
¡§Twice as a youngster. I can never forget it. Oh, Tsion, this is a stroke of genius.¡¨ 
¡§It ought to be. I agree with countless scholars who say God has planned it for this 

very purpose from the beginning.¡¨ 
Toughest for David was planning the escape of the four believers without being able 
to meet with Hannah. It made sense to meet with Mac and Abdullah, who ultimately 
reported to him. And while David had to be circumspect and not too obvious, he got 
some time with Chang without raising eyebrows. What he really wanted was to 
meet with the four of them to carefully plot the entire scenario. By secureconnection 
phone calls and E-mails, he accomplished the same thing. 
Chang worked out better than David could have hoped. While young and 
impetuous, he was more than a computer genius. He was also a good actor and 
simply lent his skills to the department and impressed his immediate superior with 
his industriousness. When his parents returned to China, he was assigned permanent 
quarters, and he and David designed and installed a computer with an impregnable 
fire wall that could do everything David's computer did. 
The Tribulation Force around the world would have access to everything David had 
built into the palace system. But first and foremost, Chang would monitor the 
escape and stay tied in with the computers at the safe house in Chicago. Everyone 
would know where everyone else was and how the mission was progressing. 
Hannah's practical suggestions proved valuable. She theorized that none of the four 
should pack or take anything they wouldn't have taken on a real trip of the same 
duration. ¡§Resist the temptation,¡¨ she counseled, ¡§to take everything you need for 
the rest of your life.¡¨ There should be no hint of closure or finality in how they left 
their rooms and offices. Of his many computers, David could justify taking only his 
laptop. 
Each of the four planned to leave change on their dressers, things left undone, 
pictures on the wall, personal items lying about. They were determined to leave 
anything they would have left if they believed they would be back in a few days. 
Maybe even a kitchenette light on, a radio playing, favorite clothes or shoes waiting. 
To-do lists, half-eaten food in the refrigerator, unopened mail. 
Mac made a doctor's appointment for the second morning after he was to return. 
Abdullah sent two uniforms to the palace dry cleaners that he was to pick up the 
afternoon he returned. David scheduled staff meetings and briefings with key staff 
members for his entire first week back. He sent memos to colleagues mentioning 
issues he would like to discuss, ¡§sometime soon when our crazy schedules settle 
down a bit.¡¨ 
The announcement of Walter Moon's ascension to Supreme Commander was made 
without pomp and went barely noticed. David, reporting to him officially the first 
time, asked casually if his own Israel-related plans should be scrapped in light of the 
change in personnel at the upper-management level. 
¡§And what were those plans, Director Hassid?¡¨ 
¡§Mac and Abdullah were to pilot the Phoenix 216 to Tel Aviv, where Potentate 

Carpathia and his VIPs would inaugurate the first loyalty mark application site open 
to the public. We understand he has a couple of days of meetings there first.¡¨ 
¡§Right. He and Reverend Fortunato have extended sessions with the sub-potentates 
and their religious representatives.¡¨ 
¡§Mac and Abdullah would return to New Babylon and return in one of the Quasi 
Twos, bringing with them the young woman from Medical Services who has 
experience with the biochip-injection system.¡¨ 
¡§I can tell you right now, David, that I would not want to see that changed. His 
Excellency is proud of that aircraft and loves to have it shown off to the citizenry.¡¨ 
¡§Our thought was that Mac would do a little air show, letting people know what that 
baby can do.¡¨ 
¡§The potentate will love that,¡¨ Walter said. 
¡§I would too, if you thought it wasn't to extravagant to let me go along.¡¨ 
¡§Not at all. You go right on.¡¨ 
¡§Mac can really make that thing sing. He and his first officer can put it through its 
paces with the young woman and me aboard, along with the equipment for the 
application site. Then upon landing, he can introduce the nurse and the equipment 
while people line up.¡¨ 
¡§Perfect. His Excellency will get that site rolling, and we move on to Israel, where 
he has something else planned.¡¨ 
When the day came, Mac and Abdullah were up before dawn, and David supervised 
the loading of the Phoenix 216 for the potentate and his entourage's flight to Tel 
Aviv. The biggest chore for a cargo crew that had recently lost its chief was the 
loading of a gigantic pig that had been driven in the night before from Baghdad. 
¡§Were there no pigs in the Holy Land?¡¨ Supreme Commander Moon wanted to 
know. 
A young Russian who had appointed himself acting loadmaster, with David's 
blessing, said, ¡§The late Mr. Hickman, rest his soul, insisted on the biggest, fattest 
one in the database, and you're looking at him. Or her.¡¨ 
David liked the Russian because he was by the book, and that came in handy later in 
the day when Hannah was sent to the hangar to order the loading of cargo onto the 
Quasi Two. At last, because she had been assigned to David for the work in Israel, 
she could meet with him in his office without suspicion. 
¡§Worked like a charm,¡¨ she said. ¡§Look at this.¡¨ She slid across his desk the 
ordering department's copy of the load manifest. Handwritten under Special Note: 
Following repeated efforts by the acting loadmaster to dissuade Ms. Palemoon and 
her insistence that approval comes straight from Director Hassid, this plane was, In 
the opinion of said chief, overloaded by at least 2O percent. If this bill of lading Is 
not countersigned by said director, cargo crew will not be responsible for the 

airworthiness of this craft. 
¡§I like it,¡¨ David said, scribbling his signature. ¡§When we all go down, the 
investigation will begin and end with our Russian friend. He'll be the grieving hero 
who wishes we would have listened, will probably be elevated to the position he 
wants, and we¡Xalong with millions of Nicks' worth of plane and cargo¡Xwill be 
sadly explained away as human error. Mine.¡¨ 
¡§I'm so proud of you,¡¨ Hannah said, shaking his hand. ¡§You kill me on my first 
assignment for you.¡¨ It appeared she was struck by the lack of humor in that, given 
David's recent loss. 
¡§It's all right, Hannah,¡¨ he said. ¡§I catch myself using death references all the time, 
as if even I can't remember.¡¨ 
She sighed. ¡§This really is quite an ingenious plan. I can say that because I had so 
little to do with it.¡¨ 
¡§Me too,¡¨ David said. ¡§If it works, we owe it to Mac and Abdullah. Mac admits to 
me, if not to Smitty himself, that the best stuff was Abdullah's.¡¨ 
Two mornings later Mac and Abdullah ran through preflight as David and Hannah 
boarded the Quasi. The Russian fussed and shook his head, trying to get the pilots 
on his side. Mac told him, ¡§He's the boss. You can only do what you can do, and 
then you have to remember you're the subordinate.¡¨ 
¡§Tell yourself that while your plane is going down,¡¨ he said. 
¡§If I thought it was life or death, I'd stand up to him,¡¨ Mac said. 
¡§My hands are clean,¡¨ the Russian said. ¡§Your funeral.¡¨ 
Actually, Hannah had overstated the weight of every piece of equipment she'd 
loaded onto the plane. The cargo was big and bulky and strained at the cords, but 
the center of gravity was perfect and would allow Mac to navigate without 
adversely affecting the attitude of the craft. 
The only cargo heavier than it appeared were the pilots and passengers. Hannah had 
reminded them that should anything float to the surface from the wreckage, it 
should be their suitcases with clothes, shoes, personal belongings, and toiletries. 
Everyone carried an extra suitcase so they could leave evidence in the water and 
still have necessities. 
¡§Watch this,¡¨ Mac said as he maneuvered the sleek jet out of the hangar and onto 
the runway. As he made his first turn he increased his speed just enough to make the 
plane sway off course. ¡§That ought to give loadmaster boy something to shake his 
head over.¡¨ 
Sure enough, as Mac waited for clearance to take off, operations asked him if he 
was aware the acting loadmaster had lodged an overload notice. ¡§Doesn't surprise 
me, tower,¡¨ Mac said. ¡§We'll take the heat.¡¨ 
¡§You know enough to abort if she's not accelerating.¡¨ 

¡§Roger.¡¨ 
Mac made the plane fishtail slightly as he picked up speed down the runway and 
heard one more warning from the tower as he lifted off. ¡§Caution noted,¡¨ Mac said. 
He set a course for Tel Aviv, but when they were equidistant from there and 
Resurrection International in Jordan, he informed both towers that he was going to 
land in Jordan as a precautionary measure. ¡§To be safe, we have arranged to have 
some cargo driven to Tel Aviv.¡¨ 
Lean, with a printed order originating from David, had talked her way onto the 
tarmac in a nondescript van. She pulled alongside the left cargo bay, where the 
pilots and passengers helped load two guillotines and a half skid of injectors into the 
van. Mac set the autobrakes and the autopilots, and all four occupants crawled into 
the van and lay on the floor. Leah slowly drove between two hangars where Mac 
could peek through the window and still see the plane. 
He communicated with the tower via portable radio and remote controlled the 
plane's taxi and takeoff. As the Quasi gradually faded from sight, Mac 
communicated to the tower through an intentionally distorted connection that he 
believed he was losing radio power. He asked if they could inform Ben Gurion 
Tower that he was on schedule, would still perform the air show, and would 
appreciate it if they could be cleared for landing immediately following. He also 
hinted that he wished he had unloaded a little more cargo, but he was confident he 
could handle the rest of the trip. 
¡§Advise abandoning show, considering,¡¨ Resurrection Tower said. ¡§Repeat?¡¨ 
¡§Consider abandoning air show and proceed to immediate conventional landing.¡¨ 
¡§No copy, tower.¡¨ 
They repeated their advice, but Mac turned off the radio. Leah pulled out of the 
airport, and she and the four bogus victims headed for Mizpe Ramon. ¡§We can all 
keep our fingers crossed,¡¨ Mac said. ¡§I've seen those Quasis do amazing things 
based solely on what the flight management system onboard computer tells it to do. 
But this is a long flight on its own, and I've asked it to do some interesting stuff, 
barring turbulence.¡¨ 
¡§Cross our fingers?¡¨ Hannah said. ¡§Only God can make this work. You're the 
expert, Captain McCullum, but if this thing goes down anywhere but deep in the 
Mediterranean, it won't take long for someone to discover no one was aboard.¡¨ 
Buck and Chaim had slipped into Israel without incident the day before and checked 
into the King David. Chaim still seemed out of sorts, having hid two commentaries 
in his briefcase. Buck thought he looked like a wise old monk in his costume, but 
privately he wondered whether the old man could command and hold an audience. 
From the first time he met Dr. Rosenzweig to interview him as Global Weekly's 
Man of the Year, Buck had been impressed with how soft-spoken the man was. He 

carried a heavy Israeli accent, though he had a strong command of English. But his 
scientific brilliance, his zest for life, and his passion were borne of an intense, 
distinct, quiet delivery. Would that convey the authority and command the respect 
he needed to serve as a latter-day Moses? Could this little man with his quiet 
demeanor lead the remnant of Israel and additional tribulation saints to the promised 
land of safety? 
He would have to challenge the ruler of the world, defy the armies of Antichrist, 
stand on the front lines against Satan himself. Yes, Chaim had had the fortitude to 
carry out a murder plot against Carpathia, but by his own admission, he had not 
known at that time with whom he was dealing. 
Buck kept to himself his misgivings and continued to pray. He had inserted himself 
in so many precarious spots in this very city that somehow the prospect of having a 
front-row seat to this bit of prophecy seemed par for the course. 
It seemed the entire nation had turned out to welcome the potentate at Ben Gurion 
Airport, then merely waited as anticipation grew for his speech the next day. The 
initiation of the first public mark application center was one thing, but to see the 
risen ruler of the nations return to the very city of his death¡Xwell, that was what the 
country was gearing for. 
Rumors abounded that His Excellency would flash the ultimate and final nose 
thumbing at the stubborn Judah-ites by using for himself one of their most sacred 
traditional sites, the very Via Dolorosa itself. No one could imagine the scene. 
Would there be opposition? Protesting? The majority of the populace would 
welcome its idol and admire his pluck. Could Carpathia take the place of the object 
of worship for many devout believers, humbly and with class paying homage to 
Jesus, one whom many now considered his predecessor? 
And then his plan to address the world from within the rebuilt temple in Jerusalem . 
. . could he risk offending two major people groups on the same day? It was no 
secret that Christians, Messianic Jews, and Orthodox Jews were the last holdouts 
against Carpathianism. But hadn't Carpathia himself and Reverend Fortunato 
proved his ascendancy through his resurrection and the deadly miracles? It was one 
thing to read the myths and legends and perhaps eyewitness accounts of a 
resurrection centuries ago. But to have seen with one's own eyes a man come back 
from obvious death and to see his right-hand man imbued with supernatural 
powers¡Xwell, there was a religion for today. 
Buck, whose The Truth coverage of some of the most dramatic incidents of the day 
had found an enormous audience of Judah-ites and Carpathianists alike, had 
engendered worldwide response by his account of some of the first uses of the 
loyalty enforcement facilitators. He attributed his account to eyewitnesses without 
identifying himself as one, so no one had a clue where the leak might have come 
from. He could hope only that even Carpathia sympathizers would be shocked at the 
inhumanity. 

It seemed the entire world was on its way to the Holy Land. Tsion had urged 
believers to come. Chloe, through the International Commodity Co-op, had 
recruited pilots, planes, drivers, and vehicles. Meanwhile, Fortunato had rallied 
Carpathianists from all over the globe to celebrate the brave return of their idol to 
the location of his murder. 
Somehow Jerusalem civic leaders had found the cash and the personnel to put at 
least a cosmetic sheen on the city. Banners, signs, and landscaping had sprung up 
seemingly overnight. While the 10 percent of the city that had been ravaged by the 
recent earthquake still lay in twisted ruins, the eyes of visitors were redirected to the 
new. If one didn't look too closely, it resembled again the festive place that had 
welcomed the Global Gala. 
Street vendors and kiosks offered palm branches, perfect for waving or laying in the 
path of the potentate, for just Nicks apiece. Hats, sandals, sunglasses, buttons 
bearing Nicolae's picture¡Xyou name it¡Xyou could buy it. 
Tel Aviv was choked with foot and vehicular traffic that led to the seashore and the 
great makeshift amphitheater that would house the mark application equipment. 
Everything was in place, including covered areas to blunt the brunt of the sun. All 
that was left to be installed were the injectors, the enforcement facilitators, and the 
personnel to man the site. People were already in line, eager to be among the first to 
pledge their loyalty to Nicolae. Part of Buck wanted to be Moishe or Eli or even 
Chaim, if he could pull it off. As he parked his rental several blocks from the site, 
Buck dreamed of abandoning reason and shouting to the uninformed, ¡§Don't do it! 
You're selling your soul to the devil!¡¨ 
He looked at his watch and quickened his pace. He wanted the best view of the air 
show, because he knew how much of a show it would be. As he headed for the 
shore, he called Rayford. ¡§Four minutes to visual contact,¡¨ he said. ¡§I allowed just 
enough time and should be in perfect position.¡¨ 
¡§Remember every detail.¡¨ 
¡§Don't insult me, Dad. How will I ever be able to forget this? Are they on 
schedule?¡¨ 
¡§On their way. The airport maneuver was successful. They're worried about the 
flight management system, since there's no chance to personally monitor it. A 
malfunction could kill innocents.¡¨ 
¡§I would be one.¡¨ 
¡§My point. Mac has communicated with Moon's people by phone, telling them 
when to expect him and letting him know they have a malfunctioning radio.¡¨ 
¡§How are things at Eagle central?¡¨ 
¡§Amazing. These virtual strangers show up with their parts of the construction plan 
and no supervision until now, and they simply cooperate, get along, and get the 
work going. They were further along than Albie and I could believe, and we're 

ahead of schedule. Dozens of choppers are already here. That'll take care of getting 
the infirm into Petra without walking the gorge. So far we believe we're still 
undetected, but that won't last long.¡¨ 
Zeke had done such a thorough job on Buck that he started every time he caught a 
glimpse of himself. As he camped out near a concession stand, he felt as invisible as 
he had in the underbrush near where Moishe and Eli had been resurrected. Crowds 
seemed to materialize from everywhere in anticipation of an actual live appearance 
by Nicolae himself. And he did not disappoint. 
A half dozen SUVs rumbled to the site, and the power elite of the world stepped out 
and strode quickly to the platform to wild applause. Carpathia was at the top of his 
game, humbly thanking everyone for coming and for making him and the Reverend 
Fortunato, the ten sub-potentates, and their respective Carpathianism representatives 
feel so welcome. He produced his usual blather about the improving state of the 
world, his renewed energy ¡§after three days of the best sleep I've ever had,¡¨ and 
how he looked forward to the rest of his time in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. 
¡§And now,¡¨ he said with relish, ¡§before a wonderful surprise for you, I give you the 
new head of our perfected religion, the Most High Reverend Leon Fortunato.¡¨ 
Leon immediately dropped to one knee and took Nicolae's right hand in both of his 
and kissed it,. When he reached the lectern he said, ¡§Allow me to teach you a new 
anthem that focuses on the one who died for us and now lives for us.¡¨ In a 
surprisingly facile baritone and decent pitch, Leon sang a heartfelt and energetic 
version of ¡§Hail Carpathia, Our Lord and Risen King.¡¨ 
Buck shuddered. He felt the familiar tingle of expectancy when he caught site of the 
Quasi in the distance and heard its high drone. The crowd had quickly picked up the 
lyrics and simple, stirring melody, and as their second attempt at it ended, Carpathia 
returned to praise the technology evident in the new Quasi Two that was bringing 
¡§not only the equipment needed for this site, but also a brief display of its 
capabilities, ably demonstrated by the pilot of my own Phoenix 216, Captain Mac 
McCullum. Enjoy.¡¨ 
The crowd exulted as the impressive jet came screaming over the city toward the 
shore. Buck was surprised how low it was, but the people oohed and aahed, clearly 
persuaded that this was part of the show. Buck worried that the computer program 
had somehow jumped off track and might result in disaster. 
The plane surged out along the shoreline, the Mediterranean gleaming in the sun. 
The craft suddenly picked up speed and rolled up onto one side, then flattened, then 
onto the other before swooping low again. To Buck it seemed to clear the water by 
no more than ten feet, and he couldn't imagine Mac's having programmed that thin a 
margin for error. 
A long, low turn brought the frisky craft directly over the dignitaries, who tried to 
maintain their dignity while squinting into the sky, willing themselves not to give in 
to the urge to duck, ties flapping in the breeze. The Quasi made another turn toward 

the Mediterranean, running parallel to the water for a blistering quarter mile, then 
pointing straight up. 
The crowd murmured as the thing ascended like a missile, and they had to wonder 
as even Buck did, though he knew the craft was empty, what it would feel like to be 
on board. Any astute spectator knew the plane was in trouble before it became 
obvious. As it slowed to its apex, it drifted backward, nose over tail for a straight 
plunge toward the water with its underbelly toward the shore. 
People talked excitedly and laughed in anticipation of the pullout that would level 
the plane at the last possible instant. Just when it appeared there was no more room 
or time, they knew she would rocket parallel, run out to sea, and then turn back 
toward Ben Gurion to more applause. 
Except that the Quasi never pulled out. This plane was not free-falling toward the 
Mediterranean. No, this multi-million-Nick marvel of modern technology was 
accelerating, her burner cans hot, the vapor shimmering in a long trail. The strange 
attitude and angle sent the craft careening toward the shore approximately threequarters 
of a mile south of the crowd. 
The Quasi and ostensibly her two-man crew and two passengers slammed the beach 
perfectly perpendicular at near the speed of sound. The first impression of the 
shocked-to-silence crowd had to be the same as Buck's. The screaming jet engines 
still resonated even after the plane disintegrated, hidden in a billowing globe of 
angry black-and-orange flames. An eerie silence swept in, followed less than half a 
second later by the nauseating sound of the impact, a thundering explosion 
accompanied by the roar and hiss of the raging fire. 
First one spectator cried out, then another. No one moved. There was no need to 
run, not away from the crash or toward it. The plane had been there in all its glory, 
teasing their expectations before fulfilling their worst fears, and now nothing but 
glowing pieces, the thing all but vaporized in a sand crater. Another tragedy in a 
world of pain. Numbly, people turned toward the sound of the PA system. Carpathia 
had returned and was speaking so compassionately and softly that they had to strain 
to catch every word. ¡§Peace be unto you. My peace I give you. Not as the world 
gives. Would you please quietly make your way from this place, honoring it as the 
sacred place of the end for four brave employees. I will ask that the loyalty mark 
application site be appropriately relocated, and thank you for your reverence during 
this tragedy.¡¨ 
He turned and whispered briefly to Leon, who then stepped to the mike and spread 
his hands wide, the folds of his robed arms creating great wings. ¡§Beloved, while 
this sadly preempts and concludes today's activities in Tel Aviv, tomorrow's agenda 
shall remain in place. We look forward to your presence in Jerusalem.¡¨ 
Buck hurried to his car and phoned Rayford. ¡§The ship is down on the shore. No 
one could have survived it. On my way back to the voice that will cry in the 
wilderness.¡¨ 

Buck was struck by an unusual emotion as he merged into traffic that crawled 
toward the ancient city. It was as if he had seen his comrades go down in that plane. 
He knew it was empty, yet there had been such a dramatic finality to the ruse. He 
wished he knew whether it was the end of something or the beginning of something. 
Could he hope the GC was too busy to thoroughly investigate the site? Fat chance. 
All Buck knew was that what he had endured in three and a half years was a walk in 
the park compared to what was coming. The entire drive back he spent in silent 
prayer for every loved one and Trib Force member. Buck had little doubt that the 
indwelt Antichrist would not hesitate to use his every resource to quash the 
rebellion scheduled to rise against him the next day. 
Buck had never been fearful, never one to back down in the face of mortal danger. 
But Nicolae Carpathia was evil personified, and the next day Buck would be in the 
line of fire when the battle of the ages between good and evil for the very souls of 
men and women would burst from the heavens, and all hell would break loose on 
earth. 
EPILOGUE 
Then I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, ¡§Go and pour 
out the bowls of the wrath of God on the earth.¡¨ 
So the first went and poured out his bowl upon the earth, and a foul and loathsome 
sore came upon the men who had the mark of the beast and those who worshiped 
his image. 
Revelation 16:1-2 

