Vol. XX, No. 32 Autumn Issue ¡E 2012 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 

michaelbloomphoto.com 


Einstein¡¦s Theory of 
Relative Insanity 

Einstein said it best: ¡§Insanity is doing the 

same thing, over and over again, but expecting 

different results.¡¨ 

Yet, with the truth of Einstein¡¦s quote widely 

acknowledged and taken for granted, how is 

it that entire societies keep doing the same 

thing over and over again but expect different 

results? 

On issue after issue ¡V economy, foreign 

policy, defense, environment, education, etc, 

¡V the manner in which governments address 
them continues to provide proof for Einstein¡¦s 
Theory of Relative Insanity. 
Another proof is to be found in the US 

presidential election. The electorate will vote 
for a representative of one of the two political parties. An analysis of what these 
parties have accomplished during their respective reigns reveals an unbroken 
track record of failure ¡K failure ranging from the catastrophic to the abject. 
Thus, to vote for either presidential candidate and to expect something other 
than failure is, by definition, insanity. 

Why will so many people vote on Election Day when they know they will 
not get what they really want? Not only will they settle for less, many openly 
acknowledge that they will be voting for the ¡§lesser of two evils.¡¨ 

How can people justify voting for an evil and actually believe that any good 
can come of it? Lesser or greater, evil is evil. Yet, not only do they justify it, they 
will argue that their evil candidate is better than your evil candidate and become 
furious when you don¡¦t see it their way. 

In America, it is an article of faith (drummed into our heads since childhood) 
that voting is a privilege and a duty and if you don¡¦t vote you get what you 
deserve. Personally, I deserve better than a lesser of two evils and will not 
demean myself by voting for one. Nor do I consider it a dereliction of duty. Just 
the opposite. It is by not voting that I register my vote of ¡§No Confidence.¡¨ 

Not voting is not necessarily a sign of apathy, it¡¦s a positive statement in 
repudiation of a failed and corrupt system. Only when enough people vote ¡§No 
Confidence¡¨ can the system change. To perpetuate the same system and expect 
different results is insanity. 

A Plague on Both Your Parties Whenever I recommend not voting as an 
act of protest, I receive a spate of emails attacking me for my unwillingness to 
participate in the insanity. I do not regard the choice between the ¡§lesser of two 
evils¡¨ as democracy in any sense of the word. 

Thus my 2012 Presidential Campaign slogan: ¡§Stay Home. Don¡¦t Vote.¡¨ If 
less than 40 percent of the electorate turns out, the numbers will prove how 
disgusted the citizenry is with both parties and demands for substantive change 
and true democracy will become impossible to ignore. 

Gerald Celente 

Publisher 

Editor and Publisher 

Gerald Celente 

Executive Editor 

John Anthony West 

Senior Editor 

Alex Silberman 

Contributing Editors 

Dr. Paul Craig Roberts 
Eldad Benary 

Consulting Editor 

Lynn Hazlewood 

Subscriptions Manager 

Emily Arter 

Illustrations 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 

Photo 

Michael Bloom 

Design 

Norgaard Advertising & Design 

All rights reserved. For information on permission 
to reproduce or translate material from The Trends 
JournalR, please contact The Trends Research 
Institute. The Trends Journal (ISSN 1065-2094) is 
published quarterly by The Trends Research Institute. 
c2012. Globalnomic, Trends Journal, Trend Alert, 
Trends in The News and History Before it Happens 
are registered trademarks of the Trends Research 
Institute. 

The Trends Research Institute 

P.O. Box 3476, Kingston, NY 12402 
845 331-3500 
www.trendsresearch.com 


The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


The Next Four Years: 
An American Tragedy 


A BAD ENDING OR A NEW BEGINNING 


The goal of trend forecasting is to predict the probable 
course of the future by extrapolating from verifiable facts 
and data. 

Sometimes forecasts have to be adjusted when wild cards 
(e.g., man-made or natural disasters) come into play or unforeseeable 
variables arise (e.g., digital revolution, energy 
breakthrough, too-big-to-fail bailouts) that can reverse, 
stall or redirect a major trend. 

More often than not, the 
facts and data lead to inescapable 
conclusions. The conclusions 
we have come to in this 
issue of The Trends Journal we 
regard as near-inescapable. But 
there is one wild card that can 
lead to different conclusions, 
and that wild card is YOU! 

The course of history that we 
have forecast can be changed. 
However likely it may appear, 
it is not predestined. It has not 
been charted by beings of a 
higher cosmic order. 

But those who are charting 
the future ¡V Presidents, Prime 

And when enough individuals change, society changes. 

It¡¦s more than just a secular challenge and it¡¦s not 
¡§Change You Can Believe In¡¨ political hype. Charting our 
future and creating our own destiny is a divine responsibility. 
And ¡§Hope¡¨ won¡¦t deliver what can be achieved 
only through a lifetime of hard work and dedication. 

Everyone is born with a unique talent for something. 
Working to bring that talent to its highest level is what gives 
our lives meaning. A life lived without creativity is a life 

not fully lived. When enough 
people are living fulfilling, creative 
lives, a higher collective 
consciousness is created. 

JUNK IN ¡V JUNK OUT 

The higher the level attained, 
the higher the bar is set. Those 
living fulfilling, creative lives 
will not accept mediocrity in 
any aspect of life ¡V from the 
food they eat to the clothes they 
wear to the music they listen to 
and the TV shows they watch. 
Every physical, emotional and 
intellectual experience and activity 
is ¡§food.¡¨ 

There is food to nourish the 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Ministers, Chancellors, Kings, 

Emirs at the helms of the ships 

of state ¡V behave as though 

they believe they are of a high


er order. 

Are we destined to be no 

more than hapless passengers ¡V 

body, emotional food for the 

heart, intellectual food for the 

head, and at the highest level, 

food that elevates the soul. 

At the physical level, of 

course, it¡¦s obvious: Eat junk 

food, drink junk drinks and 

slaves aboard their slave ships, 
whipped into submission, forced to obey orders and work 
until we are no longer useful ¡V and then thrown overboard? 


The answer to these questions is Yes ¡V if we are slaves 
that obey the Captain and his mates, accept their authority, 
and believe in their superiority, then that is our fate. 

But if we are human beings who refuse to believe, accept 
and obey self-important, self-serving beings, regardless 
of their positions ¡V then the answer is No! 

The course of history most certainly can be changed, 
but for history to change the individual has to change. 

the inevitable result is a junk 
body. The same applies to the quality of food fed to the 
head, heart and soul. Read junk books, absorb junk news, 
listen to junk music, watch junk entertainment and the 
mind thinks junk thoughts and inevitably the heart experiences 
junk emotions. 

When enough individuals become sufficiently ¡§junk 
free,¡¨ society is transformed from within and the course 
of history changes. 

But at this juncture, as detailed in the following pages, 
the most commanding trends are not leading toward a 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


pan-societal transformation. Instead, they point unmistakably 
to a rapidly declining United States superpower, 
a disintegrating Europe, and an economic meltdown in a 
world gearing up for war. 

On every front, there¡¦s chaos: failing economies, deadly 
foreign policy, societal decay, cultural rot and environmental 
destruction. All man-made disasters made by madmen 
and madwomen. And who will be chosen to fix them? 
The same madmen and madwomen who had a hand in 
creating them. 

THE LEADERSHIP VACUUM These negative trends 
did not happen on their own, they took enormous 
amounts of time, money and energy to develop. Behind 
each of them are the all-too-familiar names and faces 
that were instrumental in pushing through and promoting 
policies that were destined to become monumental 
failures. 

In this Trends Journal we provide indisputable facts 
and data to substantiate our analyses and conclusions: The 
United States is in the grip of the greatest leadership vacuum 
in its history, at a time when it most needs righteous, 
trustworthy and principled leaders. 

Instead, the presidential candidates, by their words 
and deeds, reveal themselves as polar opposites of what 
is needed. The race for the White House has lost the last 
vestiges of the dignity and substance it once had and has 
degenerated into a made-for-TV spectacle. 

It¡¦s The Presidential Reality Show, the fitting finale to 
the drama of a once-great nation that, through its unscrupulous 
leadership and the shameful acquiescence of its 
people, has devolved into the junk-food, junk-entertainment, 
junk-culture Superpower of the World. 

And the US isn¡¦t alone. There is ample competition. 
Just as so many countries once embraced and looked up 
to the best America had to offer, they now have become 
terminally infected with America¡¦s worst. The curtain 
isn¡¦t falling on Empire America alone. As the pages that 
follow detail, the immorality, the political corruption, the 
financial greed and the leadership vacuum in every power 
sector has become a global virus. 

MIRACLE CURE 

Unless a cure is found, we forecast an accelerated rate of 
decline and destruction. The only miracle cure we have 
discovered resides deep within the minds, hearts and 
souls of individuals seeking a higher meaning to life. 

While no one can deny the facts and the data presented, 
no one is obliged to agree with our analyses, our 
conclusions or our forecasts. The following pages provide 
ample food for thought. Remember our Trends Journal 
motto: ¡§Think For Yourself!¡¨ 

And after you¡¦ve read what we have written and have 
arrived at your own conclusions, essentially you are left 
with three choices: 

1. Do nothing, just go with the flow. Let the future take 
care of itself. 
2. Willingly sign up for passage on a slave-ship-ofstate 
of choice and allow self-important, self-serving 
beings to control your life. Dispose of your courage, 
dignity, self-respect, integrity and passion: Believe Accept 
- Obey. 
3. We are all endowed with unique gifts. Find the talents 
within, keep honing your craft(s), sharpen your 
skills and do your part to pave a path to a future that 
will lead to a higher order and a more spiritually advanced 
society: Prepare ¡V Survive ¡V Prevail. 
If you want to do your part, but don¡¦t feel you have what 
it takes to make a difference, remember: If Clinton can, 
Bush can, Obama can and Romney can, YOU can, and I 
can ¡V unless, of course, you believe their Mother is better 
than yours. 

Speaking only for myself, their Mother is not better 
than mine. And they are not superior to me. But just to 
keep it polite, so this doesn¡¦t get out of hand, let¡¦s just call 
it equal. 
Capisce? 

¡X Gerald Celente 
HISTORY REPEATING ITSELF 

The Summer of 2012 was one for the books. Was history repeating 
itself? The parallels were eerie. The Crash of ¡¥29 was 
mirrored by the Panic of ¡¦08: It was The Great Depression 
back then and it is The Great Recession/Depression now. 

And once again there were currency wars, trade wars, 
and now a build-up to a Great War. 

As if this wasn¡¦t enough, out of the blue, a new wild 
card dealt by Mother Nature was shaping up to look 
much like the card she had dealt some eight decades 
ago. Would the worst drought in 56 years and record-
breaking heat that scorched much of the United States 
lead to Dust Bowl 2.0? 

By mid-August, three-fifths of the nation was in a 
drought and nearly 80 percent of the nation¡¦s corn and 
soybean crops had been affected, resulting in declining 
yields and rising prices. Corn futures projected in 
April to sell in July at $4.80 per bushel were selling at 
above $8.00. In the spring, the government had forecast 
a harvest of 14.8 billion bushels of corn, but in 
August, that forecast was slashed to 10.8 billion, down 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


some 37 percent. 

Since the US supplies nearly half the 
world¡¦s corn, the combination of spiking 
prices and diminished stocks was fomenting 
a complex world-wide crisis. While American 
households generally spend about 13 percent 
of their budgets on food, in middle-income, 
developing, and poor countries that figure 
rises dramatically (Mexico 21.7 percent, Brazil 
25 percent, China 28.3 percent, India 39 
percent, Indonesia 50 percent). 

Nor were extreme weather conditions confined 
to America. Hot and dry weather was 
impacting major wheat producers Russia, 
Ukraine and Australia, while heavy rains were 
damaging Brazil¡¦s sugar production. From 
South America to Europe, hot, dry conditions 
were affecting corn and soybean crops. 

With global food prices jumping 6 percent 
in July alone ¡V the third food-price shock in 
five years ¡V it was more than just pinching 
the pocketbooks of Americans and Europeans. 
It was becoming a survival issue to billions 
around the world ¡V especially in the 
poorest nations that had not even recovered 
from the earlier food spikes. 

It was, indeed, an eerie replay of the 1930s. A global 
food crisis coming on top of an unrelenting financial crisis 
combined with rampant unemployment, governments 
toppling, draconian austerity measures, mountains of 
debt weighing down nations, civil unrest and a paralyzed, 
inept, and out-of-touch political class ill-equipped to deal 
with the crisis: 

G20 plans response to rising food prices 

G20 countries are to step in to try to co-ordinate a 
response to surging food prices, after the worst US 
drought in half a century devastated crops in the 
world¡¦s largest agricultural exporter ¡K 

G20 officials plan to hold a conference call in 
the week of August 27 to discuss a meeting, which 
could be held in late September or early October, 
according to four officials familiar with the conversations. 


The meeting would be the first of the Rapid Response 
Forum, a newly created body to ¡§promote 
early discussion among decision-level officials 
about abnormal international market conditions¡¨. 
The forum is part of the G20-backed Agricultural 
Market Information System, created last year at 
the initiative of France and seen as a key policy 
response to the 2007-08 crisis. 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
The US government on Friday stoked fears of 
a price surge ¡K The Department of Agriculture 
slashed its forecast for the crop and predicted record 
prices over the next year. 

And when President Barack Obama arrives in 
corn-growing Iowa for a three-day tour on Monday, 
he will be entering a fierce debate in the 
run-up to the presidential election on whether the 
grain is worth more as food or biofuel. 

Leading G20 countries are ¡§in favour of holding 
a meeting¡¨ as crop conditions continue to deteriorate 
in the US, one of the officials said. 

G20 officials emphasised the planned meeting 
was not a sign of panic. On the contrary, they said, 
it would be an attempt to avoid the kind of policies, 
including export restrictions and hoarding, that 
in 2007-08 transformed a shortage of agricultural 
commodities into the first full-blown food crisis 
in 30 years with riots in two dozen countries. 

The world is braced for a repeat of the 20072008 
food crisis as the worst US drought in 50 
years pushes up the prices of staple commodities. 

¡§In many respects it is just making sure everyone 
is on the same page in terms of what the 
situation is, and certainly trying to discourage any 
policies that would exacerbate the volatility,¡¨ one 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


G20 official said. 

The UN is likely to use the meeting to push 

for a global debate about biofuel policies, particu


larly asking the US, the EU and other countries to 

scrap government-mandated production targets. 

(Financial Times, 13 August 2012) 

KING CORN One of the big issues regarding surging 
corn prices was the enormous impact it would have on 
people in developing countries, who spend 30 to 40 percent 
of their income on food. It is estimated that ethanol 
refiners will consume some 40 percent of the US corn 
crop. In other countries, substantial percentages of their 
crops are similarly diverted into the biodiesel industry 

(e.g. 60 percent of Europe¡¦s rapeseed crop, and 50 percent 
of Brazil¡¦s sugarcane). 
More than just a choice between ¡§feeding the people¡¨ 
or ¡§fueling the machines,¡¨ ethanol production was itself 
both politically and scientifically controversial. Did it 
benefit the environment or did it just enrich special interests? 
(See ¡§The Cornell University Study: Ethanol,¡¨ pg. 7) 

Indeed, Mr. Obama¡¦s trip to corn-king Iowa, his fifth 
this year, emphasized the political importance of the 
corn-belt states in US politics. Having won Iowa in the 
2008 race, his visits were more about reaffirming his pro-
ethanol policy, which benefited agribusiness, than about 
increasing supply to feed people and livestock. 

While viewed as corporate welfare by environmental 
and libertarian opponents because of its generous subsidies 
and tax incentives, the ethanol program had strong 
bipartisan support in Washington. Thus, there was little 
that Obama¡¦s opponent, Republican Mitt Romney, could 
do to out-promise or out-flank Obama when it came to 
winning the hearts and minds of the corn belt states. 

Publisher¡¦s Note: Whether deciding what measures to 
take to deal with an imminent food crisis, economic crisis, 
debt crisis, or war crisis, the pattern was always the 
same. This time it was the G-20¡¦s pretentiously named 
¡§Rapid Response Forum¡¨ of self-inflated ¡§decision-level 
officials¡¨ who were on the job (or would be on the job 
in a month or so) to discuss the steps to be taken. As 
we have repeatedly detailed in previous Trends Journals, 
whatever decisions the ¡§decision-level officials¡¨ take will 
end either in abject failure or in making a bad situation 
worse. This is not conjecture, it is a forecast based 
upon the proven track records of governments around 
the world. (See Summer Trends Journal, ¡§The Shadow 
Knows,¡¨ pg. 20) 

Yet the Presstitute media, in their role as enablers and 
facilitators, persists in reporting government proposals as 

though they were credible, while virtually never providing 
follow-up coverage of the failed solutions and unfulfilled 
promises. 

And, as good Presstitutes who dutifully service their 
masters, there is no journalistic act they will not perform, 
regardless of how degrading or ludicrous it may be: 

Agriculture Secretary Vilsack 
prays for rain 

With three-fifths of the nation in a drought, Ag


riculture Secretary Tom Vilsack says the Obama 

administration is doing everything it can ¡X and 

he¡¦s saying some extra prayers. 

¡§Right now, there are a lot of farmers and 

ranchers who are struggling,¡¨ Vilsack said. Key 

federal officials are fanning out across the coun


try to get a first-hand look at drought conditions. 

¡§I get on my knees every day, and I¡¦m saying an 

extra prayer now,¡¨ the former Iowa governor said. 

¡§If I had a rain prayer or a rain dance I could do, 

I would do it.¡¨ (AP, 18 July 2012) 

Yes, Vilsack gets down on his knees every day, and so do 
the Presstitutes. Pray for rain? Sure, that will make a difference. 
After all, Vilsack is Agriculture Secretary of the 
United States of America, so God will be obliged to listen 
up and deliver whatever he asks for ¡K just as Santa does 
at Christmas. And they call it ¡§news.¡¨ 

Trend Forecast: In the US and around the world, record-
setting extreme weather patterns prevailed. It was one of 
the hottest, driest summers on record in America, record-
high ocean temperatures were recorded off the New England 
coast, there was accelerated glacier melting in the 
European Alps and Greenland, and sea ice in the Arctic 
Ocean shrank to an all-time low. 

Worldwide, it was the fourth-warmest August ever recorded, 
marking the 330th straight month with a global 
temperature above the 20th century average, with above-
average temperatures occurring in eastern Canada, southern 
Greenland, central and southern Europe, Japan and 
western Australia, among other locations. 

TREND OR FAD 

Was the climate really changing? Is global warming really 
a trend? Regardless of how the data added up and who 
was doing the adding, there is, and will be, no consensus 
on whether the changing weather patterns are part of a 
natural cycle or largely man-made. The controversy will 
continue, in part because of the vested interests involved, 
in part because the data themselves are complex and open 
to widely varying interpretations. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


The Cornell University Study: Ethanol 

S
S
everal studies suggest that the $1.4 billion in government subsidies are encouraging the ethanol program without 
reaping substantial benefits to the U.S. economy. Large ethanol industries and a few U.S. government agencies, 
such as the USDA, support the production of ethanol. 

Corn-farmers receive minimal profits. In the U.S. ethanol system, considerably more energy, including high-grade 
fossil fuel, is required to produce ethanol than is available in the energy-ethanol output. Specifically, about 29% more 
energy is used to produce a gallon of ethanol than the energy a gallon of ethanol can produce. Fossil energy powers corn 
production and the fermentation/distillation processes. 

Increasing subsidized ethanol production will take more feed from livestock production and is estimated to currently 
cost consumers an additional $1 billion per year. Ethanol production increases environmental degradation. Growing corn 
production causes more total soil erosion than does growing any other crop. Also, corn production uses more insecticides, 
herbicides and nitrogen fertilizers than required for any other crop. 

All these factors degrade the agricultural and natural environment and contribute to water pollution and air pollution. 
Increasing the cost of food and diverting human food resources to the costly, inefficient production of ethanol fuel raises 
major ethical questions. These occur at a time when more than half of the world¡¦s population is malnourished. ¡E 


For more of the Cornell University Study, click here: http://vivo.cornell.edu/display/individual16468 

What is not open to interpretation is the reality of the 
trillions of tons of poisons spewed into the air, pumped 
into the earth, and spread over the land and the seas. Be it 
global warming induced by fossil fuels or climate change 
due to natural cycles, everyone and everything ¡V the Man 
on the Street and Mother Earth herself ¡V has been and 
continues to be seriously damaged by the toxic onslaught. 

Clear-cutting of forests, topping off mountains and 
mega-mining operations, over-fishing, inexorable population 
growth, dwindling natural resources, cannot, by any 
stretch of the imagination, be considered as unavoidable, 
acceptable byproducts of progress. Yes, they create jobs, 
but on a grander scale, they are among the myriad factors 
destabilizing and desecrating life on Earth. 

Trendpost: Regardless of short-term fluctuations (too 
much rain, not enough rain, too hot, too cold, good harvest, 
bad harvest) ¡§Environmental Restoration¡¨ on the 
micro and macro scale will be a long-term mega-trend. 

Out of necessity, safe food and clean water; energy-efficient 
equipment, appliances, fixtures; alternative energy 
development, sustainability at every level (from the grand 
scale to the personal level) will become paramount concerns. 
In the process, the new Environmental Restoration 
trend will generate innumerable new entrepreneurial and 
investment opportunities. 

While the mega-trend will not result in an environmental 
utopia, the more individuals, communities and 
countries that embrace it, the greater the compounding 
positive effects. 

Past is Present With angry, destitute and starving 
populations outraged and rising in protest against the 
financial mobs, business monopolies and powerful politicians, 
history was repeating itself in 2012. 

The names and times had changed but the fundamentals 
were essentially the same: a few people with a lot, in 
control of everything ¡V and a lot of people with very little, 
going out of control. The Panic of ¡¦08, and pre-1st Great 
War of the 21st Century, were near-mirror images of post-
Crash of ¡¦29 and pre-World War II. 

For the general public and all of the media, even the 
most obvious parallels were not being made. Ironically, as 
economically ravaged Spain was being reduced to Francoera 
poverty, so the stage was being set for a new Spanish 
Civil War. 

This time the civil war would not be cast, as it had been 
in the 1930s, as a struggle between Fascism and Freedom. 
In fact, it was just that. Back then it was championed by 
Republican sympathizers as a struggle between ¡§tyranny 
and democracy,¡¨ while opposing Nationalists painted it 
as a struggle between ¡§communist/anarchist hordes¡¨ and 
¡§Christian civilization.¡¨ 

This time around the government would paint the war 
as a struggle between the righteous forces of national security 
and stability and a rabble of anarchists, socialists, 
malcontents, separatists and home-grown terrorists. 

However, for the tens of millions of unemployed and 
newly destitute who had lost everything and had nothing 
left to lose, it was a struggle between themselves and 
the criminal banking cartel, business monopolies and a 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


political Mafia that controlled their money and their lives. 

Trends Analysis: Pick a place on the map, name the culture. 
If political elections are held there, they almost invariably 
boil down to a contest between groups of the most 
powerful, entrenched power brokers. Rarely is there an 
option for a clean sweep and a new beginning. 

In practice, most political elections are exercises in futility. 
Come election time, each party plays the ¡§we care the 
most about you¡¨ role. In doing so they promote the myth 
that it¡¦s an open ¡§party¡¨ for all to join and benefit from, 
and that this egalitarian and democratic system is not about 
power, prestige or money, but is a vehicle designed to carry 
the will of the people to the seat of government. 

Yes, come election time, it¡¦s all for one, and one for all. 
Your interests are their interests and that¡¦s what they¡¦re 
looking out for. A vote for that political him or her is a 
vote for you. 

In 2012, from France to the US, from Mexico to Egypt, 
that was the pitch, and despite overwhelming evidence to 
the contrary, most of the public bought it, including many 
who should have known better. 

It had become a ritual, a secular religious rite that all 
must blindly believe in, none dare question and everyone 
must practice. Participating in the electoral process was 
dogma preached by political pitchmen and promulgated by 
the media, as though going to the polls was proof that ¡§we 
the people¡¨ are privileged souls lucky enough to live in the 
most advanced civilization humanity has ever devised. 

IN CHARGE OF THE ASYLUM 

Even though it was evident that the choice of candidates 
was limited to psychopaths, sociopaths, and megalomaniacs, 
they were, in the eyes of the faithful, political gods, 
wise and benevolent. 

The political priesthood told the worshipers that if they 
didn¡¦t perform the voting ritual, they forfeited their right 
to complain when they didn¡¦t like the results. 

The reality was, however, that by performing the ritual, 
voters were guaranteed unsatisfactory results, since they 
were voting for politicians who, almost by definition, were 
pathological liars interested only in furthering their own 
interests and the interests of those that gave them the 
most money. 

It was a mystery, but there were no hidden secrets. 

How could otherwise-functioning adults, people who 
had an education, could drive a car, earn a living and 
raise a family actually be so gullible as to believe that 
their electoral choice had their best interests at heart and 
cared about them? 

Yet they did, and they would become angry, even violent, 
should anyone question the sanctity of their political god. 

Those daring to speak out against the manifest travesty of 
the entire political system were branded heretics ¡V nonbelievers 
in sacred democracy ¡V and traitors to the cause. 

East, West, North, South, name the country, the parties, 
the players: almost without exception, ¡§democracy¡¨ 
was simply a euphemism for party rule. 

Egypt: Welcome to the Party! 
You¡¦re Not Invited In June 2012, some 18 
months after the overthrow of Hosni Mubarak (who had 
ruled for 40 years), Egypt held its first ¡§democratic¡¨ 
election. But it was barely ¡§democratic¡¨ and it wasn¡¦t 
the celebrated ¡§people power¡¨ candidates ¡X those who 
spent months in the streets, were beaten and jailed ¡X 
who got elected, or even garnered enough votes to make 
the runoffs. 

The election boiled down to a contest between the entrenched 
old guard ¡V represented by Mubarak¡¦s former 
Prime Minister, Ahmed Shafiq ¡V and Mohamed Morsi, 
from the powerful Muslim Brotherhood, a group that had 
been outlawed in Egypt for most of its 84 years. 

Although the Brotherhood had played virtually no role 
in bringing about the revolution, it was their candidate 
who narrowly won the presidency. The elections were declared 
¡§fair,¡¨ and a new Muslim boss ostensibly replaced 
the old military boss, but the ¡§genuine democracy¡¨ that 
President Obama hailed following the fall of Mubarak was 
essentially a travesty: 

¡§Good afternoon, everybody. There are very few 

moments in our lives where we have the privilege 

to witness history taking place. This is one of those 

moments. This is one of those times. The people of 

Egypt have spoken, their voices have been heard, 

and Egypt will never be the same. 

By stepping down, President Mubarak respond


ed to the Egyptian people¡¦s hunger for change ¡K 

Egyptians have made it clear that nothing less 

than genuine democracy will carry the day.¡¨ 

(President Obama, 11 February 2011) 

Democracy? The ¡§people of Egypt¡¨ hadn¡¦t spoken. The 
June 2012 election would prove that the country¡¦s entrenched 
interests did all the speaking. Secular, religious, 
it made no difference. A party was a party was a party and 
whatever party won, all those outside the party would not 
be invited, let alone have their interests addressed. 

Yes, there was a vote, but the numbers told the true 
tale. In the first round of elections, only 46 percent of eligible 
voters turned out, and just 51.6 percent voted in the 
ensuing runoff. The moral of the Egyptian election story 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


is that when half the electorate stays home, the ¡§powers 
that be¡¨ are the powers that will continue to be. 

Subsequent events further reinforced the vapidity of all 
that Washington wind and provided yet another example 
of democracy not-in-action. There were no high-profile 
cabinet appointees pulled from the ranks of the revolutionaries. 
There was no Liberty, Fraternity or Equality. 

Just days prior to Morsi¡¦s inauguration, the still-ruling 
military passed decrees circumscribing the powers of the 
presidency. But in August, in what would prove to be the 
first round in a long and ongoing power showdown, the 
Morsi government invalidated the decrees, stripped executive 
and legislative power from the military, reinstalled 
Parliament members that the military and the courts had 
declared illegitimate and replaced top Mubarak-era generals 
with new ones. 

HERE COMES THE JUDGE 

Further consolidating its power, the Brotherhood also 
moved to take over the courts. Mubarak-era judges would 
be replaced. ¡§Judges are a society that want cleansings,¡¨ 
declared newly appointed Minister of Justice Ahmed Mekki. 
¡§The judges will cleanse themselves, not me. I will 
just remove the immunity of judges who are corrupt.¡¨ 

And the commission drafting Egypt¡¦s new constitution 
was also stacked with Islamist delegates. 

By every measure, it appeared to be a Brotherhood 
takeover. But was it? There was speculation that the Muslim 
Brotherhood was little more than a front for Egypt¡¦s 
military who would still maintain their grip on power but 
legitimize it by making it look as though the Brotherhood 
was making the decisions. 

Immediately after Morsi replaced the top-ranking military 
leadership with his own team, the United States expressed 
its strong approval of the power play. ¡§We had 
expected President Morsi to cooperate with the military to 
name a new defense team. And we will continue to work 
with Egypt¡¦s civilian and military leaders to advance our 
many shared interests,¡¨ White House spokesman Jay Carney 
told reporters. 

US Defense Secretary Leon Panetta telephoned Egypt¡¦s 
new defense minister, General Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi, the 
former head of Egypt¡¦s intelligence agency, to express his 
¡§unwavering commitment to the US-Egypt military-tomilitary 
relationship, which has been really an anchor of 
stability in the Middle East for more than 30 years.¡¨ 

What was unquestionable, and gave credence to the 
suspicion of military/Brotherhood agreement was that the 
a newly installed regime had played no role in the revolution 
and had even been hostile to it. Yet, at least on paper, 
Morsi had seized all, if not more, of the powers exercised 
under the Mubarak regime. 

Same Game, Different Place There could 
be no denying it. While the story had a nice democratic ring 
to it, there was no Arab Spring in Egypt, or anywhere else 
in the Middle East. In each case, what began as a popular 
uprising would devolve into just another power struggle between 
powerful factions. 

In Tunisia, the first of the authoritarian North Africa/
Middle East governments to be toppled by an angry, 
poverty-stricken populace, the Islamist Ennahda ¡V an offshoot 
of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood, had played no 
role in the revolution but was voted into power. And they, 
like their Egyptian counterparts, were also suspected of 
being a front for the old regime, which, behind the scenes, 
still controlled the state apparatus. 

And in Tunisia, as in Egypt, there was growing concern 
that the religious-based government was not only counterrevolutionary 
but could prove radically fundamentalist. In 
Egypt, the Morsi government had vowed to run the country 
according to Sharia law. But as with any law, religious 
or secular, the open question in August 2012 was: how 
would it be interpreted and how strictly would it be enforced? 


In Egypt, members of the hard-line Salafist Al Nour 
party were insisting that Al Azhar, the center of Sunni 
Islamic thinking in the Arab world, take on the role of 
interpretation while the more moderate Islamists wanted 
the largely secular Supreme Constitutional Court to continue 
as arbiter of Sharia. 

How would it be interpreted and what would it mean to 
Egypt? Once again, Tunisia could serve as the bellwether. 

The combination of Ennahda¡¦s imposition of strict Islamic 
law and its inability to address Tunisia¡¦s endemic 
poverty was provoking another round of nationwide protests 
from unions, the unemployed and women. 

In August, a general strike called by the main trade 
union federation had 90 percent of its workers join the 
strike. In support, businesses closed their shops and offices 
in city centers for the day. With official unemployment 
at over 20 percent, food prices soaring, infrastructure in 
a shambles, public services evaporating and corruption 
rampant, the stage was being set for a second and more 
violent revolution. 

In Tunis and other cities throughout the country, tens 
of thousands of women marched in protest of the harsh 
interpretation of Sharia law being proposed by the fundamentalist 
Islamist government, an interpretation that 
would severely downgrade the status of women and reverse 
the full equality granted them under the 1956 Code 
of Personal Status law. 

Yemen, Bahrain, Syria, Libya, Jordan, Afghanistan, 
Iraq ¡V the potential for the entire Middle East region to go 
up in smoke was accelerating. The only question remain-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


ing was how much of it would go down in flames? 

It was a trend; it was predictable and we predicted it. 
The more authoritarian the governments, the longer they 
held on to power, the longer they repressed their people, 
the more violent the reaction of the impoverished and repressed 
would be. 

And in each case, the puppeteer pulling the strings of 
the puppets in power was the United States and its allies, 
most of them hated former colonialists and exploiters. 

We saw it coming, we named it Crusades 2000, and we 
predicted the consequences: 

The seeds of the new Crusades have been sown 
in areas of Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia. 
Throughout the Muslim world, devout masses, politically 
repressed and impoverished, were rising 
up against their endemically corrupt and inefficient 
secular governments with their pro-Western 
alliances. Imperialism, directly or indirectly, took 
the blame for the poverty, the lack of opportunity, 
and the social and moral decay. 

Disenfranchised, desperate, politically powerless, 
Muslims in many countries looked to charismatic 
clerics to change their destiny. (Trends 
2000, Warner Books, 1997) 

Trend Forecast: The same scenario of revolution followed 
by Islamic government control that has transpired 
in Tunisia and Egypt will be repeated throughout 
the region. How each country¡¦s government evolves or 
dissolves cannot be forecast in detail, but the broad 
outlines are clear. 

In each country, excepting some of the already-fundamentalist 
monarchies (Saudi Arabia, Qatar, United 
Arab Emirates, Kuwait), large population segments, 
forced to accept religious fundamentalist government 
rule, will erupt in battles between the Imams and the 
man on the street. 

In profligate monarchies where Sharia law already 
prevails, fundamentalist counter forces intent upon overthrowing 
leaders perceived as subservient to the West will 
fight to seize power and impose yet-stricter religious observance. 


Regardless of how the individual scenarios develop in 
and between Middle East countries, when taken together 
they will constitute yet another set of elements that will 
culminate in The 1st Great War of the 21st Century. 

But in August 2012, only The Trends Journal was writing 
this chapter of ¡§History Before it Happens.¡¨ The rest 
of the media were merely repeating what ¡§anonymous 
sources¡¨ and government officials with fixed agendas 
were telling them. 

With few exceptions, each country¡¦s conflicts were 
treated as if they were semi-contained. Yes, there were 
refugees, outside military support, violence spilling across 
borders, financial assistance and undercover operations 
carried out by foreign powers to influence the outcome. 
There were fears and realities of violence spreading to 
neighboring countries, but nevertheless, the mounting 
turmoil was not viewed as either a prelude to a region-
wide war or the flashpoint for The 1st Great War of the 21st 
Century. 

FLASHPOINT IRAN 

It never seemed to stop. Year after year, the Iranians 
would insist their nuclear ambitions were for peaceful 
purposes, while Israel and the West would, with equal 
insistence, accuse Iran of a lack of transparency which 
was to them, in effect, evidence that Iran was developing 
nuclear weapons. 

Now, in the summer of 2012, as the US presidential 
election drew near, the urgent question making the headlines 
was not whether or not Israel would attack Iran¡¦s nuclear 
facility, but rather, would Israel attack before Election 
Day? 

Since the beginning of the year, Israel (with its alleged 
400-plus nuclear warheads) had been waging an increasingly 
strident ¡§Iran must never possess a nuclear weapon¡¨ 
campaign. 

A nuclear Iran had also become a hot-button political 
issue among Republican presidential candidates, who 
were portraying the President as weak and indecisive for 
not taking tough action to stop Iran¡¦s program. 

In early March, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 
came to Washington to meet with President 
Obama and to pressure him for a pledge to take decisive 
military action against Iran and also to attend the annual 
conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, 
the powerful pro-Israel lobby. 

According to news reports: 

The Israeli leader has told US officials that he 
wants Mr. Obama to outline specifically what 
Washington views as the ¡§red lines¡¨ that Iran 
cannot cross, something the administration is 
considering as it drafts the president¡¦s speech at 
the American Israel Public Affairs Committee 
and sets the agenda for his meeting with Mr. Netanyahu. 
Some administration officials said that if 
Mr. Obama decides to more clearly define his red 
lines, he is likely to do it in private with Mr. Ne-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


tanyahu, rather than state it 
in his AIPAC speech. ¡§Over the last three years, as 
Obama, making clear in no 
uncertain terms that ¡§I have 
Mr. Netanyahu and other 
top Israeli officials also are 
pressing for Mr. Obama to 
President of the United States, I have kept 
my commitments to the state of Israel.¡¨ 
Israel¡¦s back.¡¨ 
Publisher¡¦s Note: How is it 
publicly clarify his insisthat 
the Jewish State should 
tence that ¡§all options are wield influence in American 

on the table¡¨ in addressing the Iranian nuclear 
threat.¡¨ (Wall Street Journal, 28 February 2012) 

With both the Prime Minister and President maneuvering 
for position and neither wanting to appear to give way, 
how to deal with Iran became a primetime question: 

Barack Obama calls US support 
for Israel ¡§sacrosanct¡¨ 

NEW YORK ¡X President Barack Obama on Thursday 
called US support for Israel ¡§sacrosanct,¡¨ 
and said he wanted the country to maintain its 
¡§military superiority¡¨ as he prepares to meet with 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 

The two leaders are expected to make discussions 
about Iran¡¦s nuclear development program a 
priority during their planned meeting Monday at 
the White House. 

Obama spoke Thursday during a re-election 
campaign fundraiser in New York, where he discussed 
geopolitical changes created by popular 
uprisings in the Arab world. 

¡§One of our long-term goals in that region is to 
make sure that the sacrosanct commitment that 
we make to Israel¡¦s security is not only a matter 
of providing them the military capabilities 
they need, not only providing the sort of qualitative 
military edge that they need in a very tough 
neighborhood,¡¨ Obama said. (Economic Times, 2 
March 2012) 

Two days later, Mr. Obama told the 13,000 people attending 
the AIPAC meeting that while he would not 
¡§clearly define his red lines,¡¨ he pledged to unconditionally 
support Israel in any future military confrontations 
with Tehran and reiterated his commitment as ¡§a tireless 
advocate for the unbreakable bonds between Israel and 
the United States.¡¨ 

The President assured the crowd that he had a policy 
to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. ¡§I will 
not hesitate to use force. I do not have a policy of containment, 
I have a policy to prevent Iran from obtaining a 
nuclear weapon. A nuclear armed Iran is completely counter 
to Israel¡¦s security interests. But it is also counter to 
the national security interests of the United States,¡¨ said 

politics far beyond what the Jewish population (2.2 percent) 
would seem to warrant? Is it not ¡§undemocratic¡¨ and 
non-representative for President Obama to speak on behalf 
of 97.8 percent of the American people to declare Israel 
¡§sacrosanct¡¨ while also committing America to move 
in ¡§lockstep¡¨ with Israel in its approach to Iran? 

Or was the President speaking only for himself, when 
he said, ¡§I have Israel¡¦s back.¡¨ 

Or did that ¡§I¡¨ refer to the American troops who would 
be sent to cover Israel¡¦s back, along with billions in weapons 
and defense systems? 

Or was Mr. Obama just speaking to the Jewish 2.2 
percent of the US population, and the powerful AIPAC 
lobby when he assured Netanyahu that he had ¡§Israel¡¦s 
back¡¨? 

STRONG ON ISRAEL Though Obama is often attacked 
by political opponents as ¡§weak¡¨ on Israel, despite occasional 
lapses in diplomatic language, Obama was as 
¡§strong¡¨ on Israel as most of his predecessors had been: 

¡§Over the last three years, as President of the United 
States, I have kept my commitments to the state of Israel,¡¨ 
Obama said. ¡§At every crucial juncture, at every 
fork in the road, we have been there for Israel. Every 
single time. During this political season, [when] you 
hear some question my administration¡¦s support for Israel, 
remember that it¡¦s not backed up by the facts.¡¨ 

(President Obama, 4 March 2012) 

The facts, in fact, supported Obama¡¦s statement. Since 
taking office, the Obama administration has increased 
military assistance to Israel each year, providing some $10 
billion in aid. 

Like Presidents before him, Obama voiced objections 
to Israel¡¦s continued confiscation of Palestinian land and 
just like them demonstrated he would do nothing to stop 
it. In June of 2009, for example, President Obama called 
for a settlement freeze and a halt to confiscation of Palestinian 
land. After a short pause, Israel annexed more land 
and Obama rewarded it with twenty F-35 fighter jets plus 
an extra $70 million in aid. 

Then, in May of 2011, Obama spoke of using the 1967 
borders as a starting point for the creation of a Palestinian 
state, only to later veto a UN resolution that called 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


for an end to the continuous confiscation of Palestinian 
land by Israel. 
Peace process, no peace process, settlement freeze 

¡V the building boom continued. There are now some 
600,000 Israelis occupying former Palestinian areas of 
the West Bank and East Jerusalem. 
For his part, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 
¡§appreciated the fact that President Obama reiterated 
his position that Iran must not be allowed to develop 
nuclear weapons, and that all options are on the table,¡¨ 
and the fact that Obama ¡§made clear that when it 
comes to a nuclear-armed Iran, containment is simply 
not an option.¡¨ 

More Hot Air With the race for the White House 
in full swing and the Republican presidential hopefuls 
fighting it out in the primaries, there had been heated 
competition among the front runners as to who best represented 
Israel¡¦s interests and who was best qualified to 
deliver a fatal knockout punch to Iran. 

Newt Gingrich, the # 3 man among the top three contenders, 
said he ¡§would not keep talking while the Iranians 
keep building,¡¨ and promised to give Israel the green 
light to attack and help provide the means to do it. 

Not to be outdone, #2 contender Rick Santorum declared 
that as President he would present Iran with an 
¡§ultimatum¡¨ to tear down their nuclear facilities and that 
¡§if they do not tear down those facilities, we will tear 
down them.¡¨ 

And Mitt Romney, who would ultimately challenge 
Obama, thundered: 

¡§Nuclear ambition is pursued by Iran to dominate, 
to subjugate, to obliterate. A nuclear Iran 
is not only a problem for Israel, it¡¦s a problem 
for America, and it¡¦s a problem for the world. If 
elected I will bring the current policy of procrastination 
toward Iran to an end. I will not delay 
imposing further crippling sanctions, I will not 
hesitate to fully implement the ones we already 
have. I will make sure Iran knows of the very real 
peril that awaits if it becomes nuclear,¡¨ he promised. 
¡§The only thing respected by thugs and tyrants 
is our resolve backed by our power and our 
readiness to use it.¡¨ 

But while the politicians in Tel Aviv and DC were talking 
tough, Israeli military and intelligence officials were 
sounding alarms. For example, former Mossad chief Meir 
Bagan feared that a strike on Iran¡¦s nuclear facilities 
would be ineffective and that an Iranian counterattack 

would have a ¡§devastating impact¡¨ on Israeli daily life 
while igniting regional wars. ¡§And, wars, you know how 
they start. You never know how you are ending it,¡¨ he 
warned. 

Propaganda Machine The Israeli drumbeat to 
bomb Iran played on and on. Upon his return to Israel, 
Prime Minister Netanyahu, in an address to his nation, 
affirmed that the US and Israel had different timetables 
for dealing with the Iranian nuclear program. ¡§So the 
American clock regarding preventing Iranian nuclearization 
is not the Israeli one. The Israeli clock works, obviously, 
according to a different schedule,¡¨ said Netanyahu. 
His determination to bomb was not a matter of if, but 
when. Stopping Tehran¡¦s alleged nuclear bomb program 
was ¡§not a matter of days or weeks,¡¨ he warned, ¡§it is also 
not a matter of years.¡¨ 

Months passed and bombs on Iran were not dropped, 
but the ¡§we must strike Iran before they get a bomb¡¨ refrain 
never let up: 

London braces for Israeli strike 
on Iran during 2012 Games 

Olympic planning committee fears 
a military showdown during the largest 


sporting event in the world 
Taking into account the possibility of an Israeli 
attack on Iran during the 2012 Summer Games, 
the Olympic committee in charge of the London 
event has formed a special team to prepare for the 
contingency. 

According to the Hebrew daily Yedioth Ahronoth 
on Wednesday, the team ¡X consisting of politicians, 
diplomats, security officials and organizing 
committee personnel ¡X wrote in a report that 
such a strike was entirely possible. 

England is thought to be within the range of 
Iranian missiles and UK officials believe that a 
military confrontation between Jerusalem and 
Tehran could involve the country against its will. 
(Times of Israel, 18 July 2012) 

The story line was broadened. Not only was Iran a threat 
to Israel, but if Israel did strike Iran preemptively, Iran 
would attack the Olympic stadium. The fear and hysteria 
cards had been played. The country went on high alert. 
The Times of Israel reported that elaborate contingency 
plans had been put in place: 

¡§The special team listed a number of steps that 
would need to be taken in the event of such a con-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


flict, among them: opening a special command center, 
providing secret safe houses for foreign leaders 
wishing to meet for diplomatic purposes, and preparing 
for emergency evacuations of dignitaries. 

The team said England would have to guarantee 
the safety of the athletes and the continuation 
of the Games, as well as make sure Israeli and 
Iranian athletes are kept away from each other.¡¨ 

Anti-aircraft missile batteries ringed the city. Tens of 

thousands of armed-to-the-teeth guards were at the 

ready: 12,000 police officers, 17,000 military person


nel, 7,000 private security guards, 1,000 American se


curity personnel, and 300 MI5 agents. Warships, drones 

and snipers were all in place to thwart terror. It was the 

largest peacetime security operation ever launched in 

Britain. 
The plot thickened. Even if Israel decided not to 

strike Iran during the Olympics, Israel was worried that 

Iran would launch an unprovoked terror strike: 

Israel warns of Iranian terrorists¡¦ 
attack on London Olympics 

LONDON ¡X Israeli officials have warned that 
an Iranian terror squad in Europe may be planning 
to attack its athletes at the 2012 Olympic 
Games, sparking the largest security operation 
in peacetime Britain, British media reported on 
Sunday. 

The Sunday Times reports that ¡§panic rooms 
have been installed beneath the stadium as a 
haven for VIPs and spectators in the event of an 
attack.¡¨ MI5 and New Scotland Yard are reportedly 
thought to have raised their threat assessment 
in light of the terrorist attack in Bulgaria 
on Wednesday that killed 5 Israelis, the bus 
driver and a suicide bomber. In addition, the 
Sunday Times reports, the Israeli government 
has dispatched agents from the Shin Bet and 
Mossad to protect its 38-strong delegation. 

The Mossad, says the Sunday Times, ¡§is 
hunting a group of white Europeans who are 
thought to have converted to Islam and to be 
working with the Iranian Quds force and Hezbollah, 
backed by Tehran. One of the Israelis¡¦ 
targets is thought to be a terrorist carrying a 
US passport under the name of David Jefferson, 
who is believed to have fled after the Burgas 
attack¡¨ and ¡§is thought to have another powerful 
device¡¨ like that used in last week¡¦s bombing, 
said the report. According to the Sunday 
Times, ¡§Security experts say the Quds force - a 

unit of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards - has 
recruited a number of white European Islamic 
converts, including two Germans, one from 
Sweden and a couple of Britons.¡¨ New York police 
believe Iranian Revolutionary Guards or 
their proxies have been involved so far this year 
in nine plots against Israeli or Jewish targets 
around the world, according to restricted police 
documents. (Online Asian Defence News, 23 
July 2012) 

Evil Doers Nukes or no nukes, Iran was the enemy. 

No evidence needed, only accusations repeated often 

enough that they were accepted as evidence. In the case of 

the Burgas attack, Bulgarian officials could find no proof 

of an Iranian connection. Similarly, New York police also 

provided no evidence to substantiate their accusations of 

Iranian plots against Jewish targets, maintaining the doc


uments were too sensitive to reveal. 
Just weeks after the games finished without incident, 

target Iran was back in Israel¡¦s sights: 

Israel ready for 30-day war 
after Iran strike: minister 

JERUSALEM ¡X Israel is prepared for a 30-day war 
on multiple fronts should it decide to strike Iran, 
and is ¡§ready as never before¡¨ for such a clash, 
the outgoing home front defence minister said 
Wednesday. 

In an interview with the Maariv newspaper, 
Matan Vilnai said Israel was ready to face the 
consequences of a clash with Iran that could be 
sparked if the Jewish state decides to launch a 
strike against Tehran¡¦s nuclear programme. 

¡§The assessments are for a war that will last 
30 days on a number of fronts,¡¨ he said, repeating 
the predictions of other senior Israeli officials that 
the Jewish state would suffer around 500 deaths 
in such a clash. 

¡§It could be that there will be less fatalities, but 
it could be there will be more that is the scenario 
that we are preparing for according to the best 
experts.¡¨ 

Speculation has risen in recent weeks about 
the possibility of an Israeli attack on Iran¡¦s nuclear 
programme, which the Jewish state and much 
of the international community believes masks a 
weapons drive. 

Tehran vehemently denies those accusations, 
saying the programme is for peaceful energy and 
medical purposes. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


As 
grows, 
the speculation 
observers in Is¡§
If journalists were not Presstitutes, 
his willingness to start a 
war because ¡§decisions had 
rael have raised concern 
about the country¡¦s 
preparedness for war. 
they would mock Vilnai for seeing ¡¥no reason 
for hysteria¡¦ in this hellish scenario.¡§ 
to made,¡¨ one which in this 
case, was strongly opposed by 
the Israeli public. 

(Maariv, 15 August 2012) 

Vilnai brushed aside these concerns, saying there was ¡§no 
reason for hysteria¡¨ and that Israelis had no choice but to 
accept such a death toll: 

¡§Just as the citizens of Japan have to realize they can 
have earthquakes, so the citizens of Israel have to realize 
that if they live here, they have to be prepared to expect 
missiles on the home front. It¡¦s not pleasant for the home 
front, but decisions have to be made and we have to be 
ready. I can say in the most authoritative manner that 
the home front is ready as never before in the country¡¦s 
history.¡¨ 

Ah yes, He, ¡§Vilnai The Omniscient¡¨ has spoken ¡§in the 
most authoritative manner,¡¨ thus: 

n ¡§The war will last 30 days¡¨ 

n ¡§The Jewish state would suffer around 500 deaths¡¨ 

n ¡§It could be that there will be less fatalities, but it 

could be there will be more.¡¨ 

NO SURPRISE Whether it¡¦s politicians taking people to 
war by promising swift victory and minimal losses ¡V or 
politicians taking people to the poor house by promising 
that bailouts and austerity policies will bring prosperity, 
it¡¦s all basically the same: Having set themselves up as 
¡§leaders¡¨ and ¡§authorities¡¨ that know best, they invariably 
minimize risks, make promises they can¡¦t possibly 
keep and initiate policies that invariably fail. As history 
proves over and over again, either they don¡¦t know what 
they are talking about, they are lying, or both. And the 
consequences are invariably horrific. 

KIDDIE CRAP 

If there were honorable journalists, and not a corps of 
subservient Presstitutes, they would rip apart Vilnai for 
his arrogant and baseless assumptions and calculations. 
They would expose as a fool anyone idiotically comparing 
a Mother-Nature-made earthquake in Japan to a man-
made Israeli provocation that would bring missiles raining 
down on ¡§the home front¡¨ while brushing the resulting 
devastation off as a ¡§not pleasant¡¨ consequence. 

If journalists were not Presstitutes, they would mock 
Vilnai for seeing ¡§no reason for hysteria¡¨ in this hellish 
scenario. They would describe him as deranged for 

And, if journalists were 
not Presstitutes, they would 

ridicule Vilnai and his ¡§best experts¡¨ for making un


substantiated estimates of the Israeli death toll and the 

destruction that would be wrought by an Iranian coun


terattack. 
Iran¡¦s ¡§best experts¡¨ saw it very differently: 

Iran Response Huge If Targeted 
by Israel, Hezbollah Says 

Iran¡¦s response to an attack by Israel would be 
¡§huge,¡¨ Hezbollah¡¦s Secretary-General Hassan 
Nasrallah said, reacting to warnings by Israeli 
leaders that time is running out for a diplomatic 
solution to the Islamic Republic¡¦s atomic work. 

A strike by Israel would give Iran the ¡§golden 
opportunity¡¨ it has been seeking for years, Nasrallah 
said today in a speech relayed to supporters 
in southern Beirut. 

Israel would have attacked Iran¡¦s nuclear facilities 
a long time ago had the Persian Gulf country 
been weak, Nasrallah told supporters marking 
Quds Day, or Jerusalem Day. 

¡§Iran is powerful and courageous,¡¨ Nasrallah 
said, adding that he and the Israelis know Iran¡¦s 
response to any assault would be ¡§huge and lightning.¡¨ 
(Bloomberg, 17 August 2012) 

¡¥Tumour¡¦ of Israel will soon 

be destroyed: Ahmadinejad 

TEHRAN ¡X Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
told an annual anti-Israel protest in Tehran 
on Friday that the Jewish state was a ¡§cancerous 
tumour¡¨ that will soon be excised, drawing 
Western rebukes. 

¡§The Zionist regime and the Zionists are a 
cancerous tumour,¡¨ he said. 

¡§The nations of the region will soon finish 
off the usurper Zionists in the Palestinian land 
¡K A new Middle East will definitely be formed. 
With the grace of God and help of the nations, in 
the new Middle East there will be no trace of the 
Americans and Zionists,¡¨ he said. 

The diatribe took place amid heightened tensions 
between Israel and Iran over Tehran¡¦s controversial 
nuclear programme. 

The Jewish state has in recent weeks intensi-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


fied its threats to possibly bomb Iran¡¦s nuclear facilities 
to prevent it having the capability to produce 
atomic weapons. 

Its military has warned it will destroy Israel if 
it attacks. 

¡§They (the Israelis) know very well they don¡¦t 
have the ability¡¨ to successfully attack Iran, foreign 
ministry spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast 
was quoted as saying by the ISNA news agency. 

¡§If they make a mistake, our nation¡¦s reaction 
will lead to the end of the Zionist regime,¡¨ he said. 

US National Security Council spokesman Tommy 
Vietor told AFP that Ahmadinejad¡¦s comments 
were ¡§hateful and divisive.¡¨ 

¡§We strongly condemn the latest series of offensive 
and reprehensible comments by senior Iranian 
officials that are aimed at Israel,¡¨ Vietor said. 

¡§The entire international community should 
condemn this hateful and divisive rhetoric.¡¨ 

French deputy foreign ministry spokesman Vincent 
Floreani hit out at the ¡§latest provocations¡¨ 
from the Iranian president. 

¡§We firmly condemn these outrageous and totally 
unacceptable statements and we remind (Iran) 
that we would never allow the right of Israel to live 
in peace to be called into question,¡¨ he said. (AFP, 
17 August 2012) 

Iran War, Israel War? Only time would tell. 
The one thing that time would not have to wait to tell was 
that the propaganda war had long been underway and was 
being waged relentlessly. 

When Israeli leaders threatened to bomb Iran, the 
Western media did not apply a pejorative label to either 
the tone or the substance of the threat ¡V since it was accepted 
as a given that ¡§Israel had the supreme right to 
defend itself.¡¨ But when Iran, which was being threatened 
with a massive, unprovoked attack, denounced 
Israel, the Presstitutes disparaged it as a ¡§diatribe,¡¨ 
and provided one-sided commentary from a variety of 
Israeli supporters while providing no counterbalance 
from Iranian allies. Ahmedinejad¡¦s rhetoric was: ¡§hateful,¡¨ 
¡§divisive,¡¨ ¡§offensive,¡¨ ¡§reprehensible,¡¨ and his 
¡§latest provocations¡¨ were ¡§outrageous¡¨ and totally 
¡§unacceptable.¡¨ 

Yet, when Israel responded that it was prepared to 
attack Iran, while using the upcoming US Presidential 
elections as a tool to force the Obama Administration 
into supporting the attack, there was no outcry calling 
the Israeli threat: ¡§hateful,¡¨ ¡§divisive,¡¨ ¡§offensive,¡¨ ¡§reprehensible,¡¨ 
¡§outrageous¡¨ and ¡§totally unacceptable¡¨: 

Israel ¡¥planning to attack Iran 
before U.S. election¡¦: PM could order strike 
on nuclear targets within weeks 


Israel is planning a military strike against Iran¡¦s 
nuclear programme before November, security 
sources in Israel have claimed. 

Alon Ben-David, the well-informed military 
correspondent for Israel¡¦s Channel 10 News, 
claimed on Monday that the country was ¡¥closer 
than ever¡¦ to a strike against Iran. 

He said Mr. Netanyahu was ¡¥determined¡¦ to attack 
Iran before the US election on November 6 

¡V just 11 weeks away. 
Israeli leaders believe that President Obama, 
locked in a close election battle with Republican 
Mitt Romney, would be forced to back an Israeli 
strike ¡V even though US military chiefs are against 
it ¡V for fear of alienating Jewish voters in key swing 
states such as Florida. 

Mr. Netanyahu has described the Islamist country¡¦s 
nuclear ambitions as ¡¥an existential threat¡¦ 
that could be used to destroy the Jewish state. 

But British and American security chiefs believe 
military action would spark a lethal Middle 
East conflict. Last week, US defence secretary 
Leon Panetta and the chairman of the US Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, Martin Dempsey, held an unprecedented 
briefing at the Pentagon to warn against 
an Israeli strike. 

Even senior Israeli defence and intelligence 
figures, including the recently-retired head of the 
Mossad spy agency, have opposed an Israeli attack. 

Military analysts have warned that, without US 
bunker-busting bombs and other vital armaments, 
Israel cannot destroy Iran¡¦s well-defended nuclear 
installations. 

But Mr. Netanyahu appears determined to strike. 

¡¥From the prime minister¡¦s point of view, the time 
for action is getting ever closer,¡¦ Ben-David said. 

Behind the scenes, a shadow intelligence war 
appears to be escalating. Key Iranian nuclear scientists 
have been assassinated or disappeared and 
Iran¡¦s computer networks have been infiltrated by a 
series of sophisticated viruses apparently designed 
to sabotage control systems at its nuclear research 
facilities. (Daily Mail, 21 August 2012) 

Netanyahu: Iran is accelerating 
progress toward nuclear weapons 

Information revealed this week proves that Iran 
is still pursuing nuclear weapons, Prime Minister 
Benjamin Netanyahu told visiting U.S. congress-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


TREND LESSON TREND LESSON 
The News Behind the News 


Our analysis of the Daily Mail story ¡§Israel ¡¥planning to attack Iran before U.S. election¡¦¡¨ shines a very different light upon 
what, at first glance, appears to be little more than the news of the day, the latest in an ongoing series: ¡§Will Israel attack 
Iran?¡¨ ¡§When will they attack?¡¨ and ¡§If they attack, what will happen?¡¨ 

However, to more accurately describe what Netanyahu wanted and what it would mean, the Daily Mail headline should 
have read: 

Presidency of United States Held Hostage. 
Israel Prime Minister Demands Ransom: Will Obama Pay? 


Seemingly innocuous and even-handed as the Daily Mail story is, as with so many other mainstream reports, it provides yet 
another instance of journalistic bias. 

The evidence resides in the language. In the Western media, virtually all stories concerning America¡¦s staunch ally Israel, 
regardless of the issue (seizing Palestinian land to build further illegal housing developments, extra-judicial assassinations, 
attacks upon unarmed civilians) are couched in non-judgmental, non-inflammatory language. 

But in virtually all stories concerning America¡¦s sworn enemy Iran, a totally different order of language is employed. 
When Netanyahu wants to hold America hostage, it¡¦s just Bibi being Bibi. But if the same language that was applied to 
Ahmedinejad talking about retaliation to an Israeli strike were applied to Benjamin Netanyahu, Bibi¡¦s true nature would 
stand revealed: ¡§reprehensible,¡¨ ¡§outrageous,¡¨ ¡§totally unacceptable,¡¨ ¡§a diatribe¡¨ from a raving, scheming, paranoid 
psychopath. 

ONLY IN AMERICA 

It was a curious fact that the American press and American politicians were routinely more pro-Israel than the Israeli press 
and politicians. As the ¡§to bomb, or not to bomb¡¨ Iran debate heated up in Israel, Shaul Mofaz, chairman of the opposition 
Kadima Party ridiculed the Prime Minister¡¦s style of government, calling it ¡§Bibi-land ¡V Netanyahu¡¦s land of wonders, a cutoff 
kingdom that is all illusion, complete with a fraudulent leadership.¡¨ 

He also accused Netanyahu of using the Iranian issue to divert attention from Israel¡¦s domestic problems, saying the 
premier was ¡§planning distractions far from Israel¡¦s borders.¡¨ 

¡§Cries are heard from afar. Motivation is high. Scare tactics are used. And the strategy is clear: If we die of fear, we won¡¦t 
die of hunger,¡¨ Mofaz added. 

The lesson within the Trend Lesson: Watch, read and listen to as many sources from as many different points of view as 
possible, both domestic and foreign, on any issue with geo-political, economic and military consequences. This, of course, 
means going beyond mainstream ¡V and even alternative ¡V media for specialized research and analysis on the given topic. 

As demonstrated in the story above, there is a stark difference in how Netanyahu¡¦s war talk is reported in Israel as compared 
to the United States. If you received information only from US media, you would not realize how contentious the issue 
was in Israel itself. ¡E 


man Rep. Mike Rogers on Friday. 

Citing sources, Reuters reported on Thursday 
that Iran is continuing to install many more uranium 
enrichment centrifuges in its Fordo facility, 
which is buried deep inside a mountain, in order 
to protect it from a military strike. One source 
suggested Iran had already installed hundreds of 
enrichment machines. 

Meeting in Jerusalem, Netanyahu told Rogers, 
who is the chairman of the House Intelligence 
Committee, that the report was ¡§additional proof 
that Iran is continuing its accelerated progress to 
obtain nuclear weapons, while completely ignoring 
international demands.¡¨ 

Iran is using the Fordo facility, near the holy 
city of Qom, to enrich uranium to a fissile concen


tration of 20 percent. The West fears Iran¡¦s actions 

are aimed at paving a way for the manufacturing 

of nuclear bombs. (Haaretz, 24 August 2012) 

Apocalypse Now or Later? Could this be? 
Was Israel¡¦s Prime Minister going to use the presidential 
election as a cover to attack Iran, and in so doing, coerce 
Obama into dragging America into war? Considering Alon 
Ben-David¡¦s inside access to Israel¡¦s military high command, 
was there any reason to challenge his veracity? Or 
could he be acting on behalf of Netanyahu and/or the 
military by sending up a trial balloon to gauge US and 
international reaction? 

Here was Israel, a diminutive nation (bigger than New 
Jersey but smaller than Massachusetts) financially and 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


economically inconsequential, but capable of holding 
mighty America hostage. In a Presidential race that began 
18 months prior to Election Day and in which billions of 
campaign dollars would be spent to win over swing voters 
(the ¡§undecideds¡¨) in a few crucial states, could Benjamin 
Netanyahu prove to hold the balance of power to determine 
who would win in November? 

And, according to the Daily Mail story, one crucial 
swing state targeted by Netanyahu was Florida, with its 
large, elderly and unconditionally pro-Israel Jewish population. 


In 2008, Barack Obama beat John McCain in Florida 
by 2.8 percent, but received around 75 to 78 percent of the 
Jewish vote. Obama scored a greater share of Jewish votes 
than John Kerry did in 2004 and nearly equaled Al Gore¡¦s 
numbers in 2000, when Gore ran with Joseph Lieberman, 
an Orthodox Jew. 

But in late August 2012, Florida polls showed Obama 
with a statistically insignificant one point lead over Romney. 
With Romney outpolling Obama among seniors, 
many of whom have watched their home equity evaporate 
and retirement funds dissolve, the President faced an 
uphill battle in trying to win them over. Under these circumstances, 
maintaining ¡V or even increasing ¡V the Jewish 
majority became an even more critical element in the 
election. 

HOLD OR FOLD 

If Netanyahu made good on his threat, was Barack Obama 
prepared to sacrifice his re-election and listen to the US military, 
which publicly opposed an Israeli attack upon Iran? 

Would Obama pay heed to the gamut of Israeli military, 
security and intelligence sources who warned that the war 
against Iran would prove hugely destructive for Israel as 
well, would not permanently destroy Iran¡¦s nuclear capabilities 
and would lead to a massive regional war throughout 
the Middle East? 

While the Netanyahu power play to gain American 
support for a possible attack on Iran before the November 
election was being reported, the extent, consequences 
and even the legality of Israel¡¦s direct influence on the US 
Presidential campaign were not being considered by the 
press in America. But it was in Israel: 

Mofaz demands clarifications 
from Netanyahu over his ¡¥intention to 
lead Israel to war with Iran¡¦ 


Israel¡¦s opposition head Shaul Mofaz sent Prime 
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu a letter on Monday 
demanding an urgent meeting on the Iranian issue. 
¡§I ask that this meeting be convened without 
delay, and address your intention to lead Is


rael to war,¡¨ Mofaz wrote. According to law, the 
prime minister must brief the opposition head on 
a monthly basis. 

Mofaz attached a classified document, copies of 
which were also sent to the defense minister, Attorney 
General Yehuda Weinstein and the chairman 
of the Knesset¡¦s Foreign Affairs and Defense 
Committee. According to Army Radio, the attached 
document included a number of questions 
concerning Israel¡¦s preparedness for a war with 
Iran and relations with the U.S. 

The Kadima chairman added that an Israeli attack 
on Iran¡¦s nuclear facilities would only achieve 
limited results, alongside ¡§loss of life, grave damage 
to the home front and deep erosion of Israel¡¦s 
political situation ¡V such action is immoral and 
operationally illogical under the circumstances.¡¨ 

In his letter, Mofaz also criticized Netanyahu 
for his handling of relations with the U.S. ¡§What 
is the real goal behind widening the rift with the 
U.S.?¡¨ he asked. ¡§Administration officials have 
clearly illustrated to you, to the defense minister 
and to the undersigned the dramatic ramifications 
of an Israeli operation, which would [constitute] 
a blunt and illegitimate intervention in internal 

U.S. political processes in the run-up to the presidential 
election in November this year.¡¨ (Haaretz, 
20 August 2012) 
It could not have been clearer. This was not a false ac


cusation being made by an anti-Semite intent upon poi


soning US/Israeli relations. Rather, it was a warning 

from the leader of Israel¡¦s Kadima party that there was 

¡§a blunt and illegitimate intervention [by the Israeli 

Prime Minister] in internal U.S. political processes in 

the run-up to the presidential election in November 

this year.¡¨ 
But over and above the complex political machinations, 

one thing was certain: Romney had to win the Jewish vote 

to win the White House and to win the White House, he 

had to win Florida: 

Florida crucial to Romney; 
clincher for Obama 

WASHINGTON ¡X For Mitt Romney and the Republicans, 
Florida is a must-win, the indispensable 
make-or-break prize they must capture on 
Election Day to regain the White House. 

For President Barack Obama, Florida is the 
potential clincher, the knock-out punch, the big 
boost he may not need in terms of Electoral College 
votes but would love to have to ease his path 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


to a second term and strengthen his mandate to 

govern. (Sun Sentinel, 26 August 2012) 

Or, would Obama make good on his promise to AIPAC 
and join an Israeli preemptive strike ¡§to prevent Iran 
from obtaining a nuclear weapon,¡¨ and ¡§not hesitate to 
use force?¡¨ 

A JACKASS BY ANY OTHER NAME 

If the stubborn Democratic donkey couldn¡¦t be led by the 
Israeli government, would the Republican circus elephant 
perform its tricks? In late July, with his campaign in stall 
mode, Mitt Romney took it overseas to England, Israel and 
Poland to showcase his foreign policy skills and presidential 
potential. 

The Romney road show bombed big on its first stop. 

Upon arrival in London, the presidential challenger wast


ed no time in alienating and insulting his hosts: 

Mitt Romney visits London 
while stumbling on almost every front 


The Obama campaign could scarcely have thought 

of a better outcome for Mitt Romney¡¦s first UK visit 

as presumptive nominee 
If Barack Obama were dreaming up the ideal 
start to Mitt Romney¡¦s first overseas visit as the 
presumptive Republican nominee, the president 
might wonder whether his rival could offend the 
US¡¦s historic transatlantic ally. 

That would obviously be rejected as impossibly 
ambitious, so the president might then ask himself 
whether Romney would fail to remember the 
name of one of his hosts in London. 

To the undoubted joy of the White House, 
Romney stumbled on all those fronts in London 
on Thursday, the first day of his visit to three of 
the US¡¦s closest allies - Britain, Israel and Poland. 

Downing Street, which had gone to great 
lengths to give Romney the red carpet treatment 
without breaching strict protocol rules, was astonished 
when he questioned whether London 
was capable of running a successful Olympics. In 
an interview with NBC after his arrival in London, 
Romney said it was ¡§disconcerting¡¨ that the 
Olympics organizers had encountered difficulties 
over security. One Whitehall source described 
Romney¡¦s remarks as a ¡§total shocker¡¨ that had 
rendered officials ¡§speechless¡¨. 

David Cameron wasted no time in delivering 

a carefully calibrated put down. During a visit to 
the Olympic Park, the prime minister said Britain 
was delivering the games in a bustling city. ¡§Of 
course it¡¦s easier if you hold an Olympic Games in 
the middle of nowhere,¡¨ the prime minister said 
in a none too subtle reference to the 2002 Salt 
Lake City games famously rescued by Romney. 
(The Guardian, 26 July 2012) 

On his Israel leg of the trip, Romney once again stepped 
on his tongue: 

Mitt Romney¡¦s insult-the-world tour 

excels in picking on the Palestinians 

In his enthusiasm to attract Jewish donors, 
Romney fails to acknowledge Israel¡¦s iron grip 


on Palestinian economic hopes 
Mitt Romney isn¡¦t on an ordinary world tour. He¡¦s 
on an insult-the-world tour, during which he¡¦s 
constantly trying to outdo his previous personal 
best. How else to explain the Republican presidential 
candidate¡¦s horribly offensive comments 
about Palestinians during his recent trip to Jerusalem, 
so soon after the clunking insults leveled 
at his British hosts in London last week? 

Over a ¢G16,000-a-plate campaign fundraiser 
breakfast with Jewish donors in Jerusalem, Romney 
aired his deep thoughts on ¡§the dramatic, 
stark difference in economic vitality¡¨ between 
the Palestinian and Israeli economies. These 
thoughts were obtained by reading books, he prefixed, 
before surmising that Israeli accomplishments 
were down to ¡§at least culture and a few 
other things¡¨ ¡V oh, and also, ¡§the hand of providence¡¨. 
So Romney thinks that Palestinians are 
screwed because Israelis have a better culture and 
a better god. It¡¦s a shame he didn¡¦t add something 
about bad karma and the Palestinians not doing 
their positive affirmations properly. 

The presidential hopeful doubtless believes 
this standard-issue, superiority-complex racism ¡V 
and that it¡¦s what his donors want to hear. Romney 
was, after all, only in Jerusalem to assure right-
wing Israelis that he is an even bigger fan of their 
peace-quashing ways than President Obama. Sitting 
next to the Republican candidate at that Israeli 
hotel breakfast was American casino-billionaire 
Sheldon Adelson, who bankrolled Romney¡¦s 
visit and has indicated his readiness to part with 
$100m (¢G63.5m) for the Romney campaign. 

Adelson thinks that the Palestinians are an 
¡§invented people¡¨, supports Israeli hard-right 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


prime minister Benjamin 


The report also says the 
Netanyahu and vigorously 

coastal aquifer, the terriopposes 
a two-state solu


tory¡¦s only natural source 
tion, so we can presume 

of fresh water, may become 
that Romney¡¦s remarks 

unusable by 2016. 
were designed to help him 


Disconnected territory 

reach for his wallet. 

UN officials point to the 
Palestinians have, quite 

difficulty of improving the 
naturally, responded with 

situation given ¡§the closure 
outrage at Romney¡¦s re-

of the Gaza Strip, violent 
marks. ¡§The statement re-

conflict, and the pressing 
flects a clear racist spirit,¡¨ 

need for Palestinian reconsaid 
Palestinian labour min


ciliation¡¨. 
ister Ahmed Majdalani. ¡§If 


¡§An urban area cannot 
Romney came here to rally 

survive without being con-
Israeli and Jewish support 

nected,¡¨ said Maxwell Gay-
in the US election, he can 

lard, the UN Resident and 
do that without insulting the 

Humanitarian Co-ordina-
Palestinian people.¡¨ (The 

tor. 
Guardian, 31 July 2012) 


Gaza has no air or sea 
ports, and the economy is 
While his host (and former 

heavily dependent on out-
Boston Consulting Group col-

side funding and smug-

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 

league) Netanyahu may have 

considered the insult to Pales


tinians as a compliment to Israel, the entire Arab world 

and a good portion of the rest of the world found these 

remarks stupid, insensitive and inflammatory. 
The ¡§culture disparity¡¨ could hardly be ascribed to in


ferior Palestinian DNA: 

Gaza ¡¥will not be livable by 2020¡¦ - UN report 

The Gaza Strip will not be ¡§a livable place¡¨ by 
2020 unless action is taken to improve basic services 
in the territory, according to a UN report. 

Basic infrastructure ¡§is struggling to keep pace 
with a growing population¡¨, the UN Country Team 
(UNCT) in the occupied Palestinian territory said. 

It estimates Gaza¡¦s population will rise from 
1.6m to 2.1m by 2020. 

Israel imposed a blockade on Gaza after the 
Islamist movement Hamas seized power in the 
coastal territory in 2007. 

Israel says the restrictions are necessary to prevent 
weapons reaching Hamas. Palestinians and 
human rights group denounce them as ¡§collective 
punishment¡¨. 

The UN report, ¡§Gaza in 2020: A livable 
place?¡¨, estimates the territory will need double 
the number of schools and 800 more hospital beds 
by 2020, and says it is already suffering from a 
housing shortage. 

gling through tunnels under 
the Egyptian border. 

Even though Gaza has experienced some economic 
growth in recent years, the report says it 
¡§does not seem to be sustainable¡¨ and finds that 
Gazans are worse off now than in the 1990s. 

Unemployment was at 29% in 2011 and has 
risen since then, particularly affecting women and 
young people. (BBC, 27 August 2012) 

Missionary Mitt The former Mormon missionary 
was on a mission. For Romney to win the US election he 
had to win over the Jewish vote to win in the swing states, 
especially Florida. And to help him win the Jewish vote, 
multi-millionaire Romney was performing his circus act 
in front of some of the richest people in the world, many 
of them US citizens who had come to Jerusalem especially 
to participate in the $50,000-per-couple breakfast fund-
raiser. 

The breakfast fund-raiser featured billionaires such as 
vulture capitalist Paul Singer; John Miller, CEO of National 
Beef Packing; and the aforementioned casino magnate 
Sheldon Adelson (estimated personal wealth $25 
billion). And there was Mormonizing Mitt, going for the 
Adelson gambling gelt even though: 

¡§The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is 
opposed to gambling, including lotteries sponsored by 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


governments. Church leaders have encouraged Church 
members to join with others in opposing the legalization 
and government sponsorship of any form of gambling.¡¨ 
(From The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints website) 

Trends Analysis: With the Republican Party platform 
largely built upon moral issues, there was no big issue 
being made in the media of Romney¡¦s eagerness to take 
campaign money from the world¡¦s richest gambling enabler. 
Drug money, gambling money, brothel money ¡V in 
politics money is money and whoever gives the most gets 
the most. 

Thus, when it concerned Israel, wealthy Jewish donors 
lavished millions in campaign contributions on both Republican 
and Democratic candidates. This isn¡¦t speculation 
or insinuation, nor anti-Semitism: It was openly acknowledged. 


Israeli billionaire and media mogul Haim Saban, who 
has reportedly contributed tens of millions to both parties, 
was, according to The New York Times ¡§¡K perhaps the 
most politically connected mogul in Hollywood, throwing 
his weight and money around Washington, and increasingly, 
the world, trying to influence all things Israeli. ¡¥I¡¦m 
a one-issue guy and my issue is Israel,¡¦ he said.¡¨ 

The Jewish influence on American politics has been 
acknowledged by both Jewish and non-Jewish media. 
Back in 2000, The Jerusalem Post wrote that Jewish influence 
is ¡§far disproportionate to the size of the community, 
Jewish leaders and US officials acknowledge. But 
so is the amount of money they contribute to [election] 
campaigns.¡¨ One member of the influential Conference 
of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations 
estimated ¡§Jews alone had contributed 50 percent of the 
funds for [President Bill] Clinton¡¦s 1996 re-election campaign.¡¨ 
(The Jerusalem Post, 2 April 2000) 

The Third Act With two months left to decide on 
the winner of The Presidential Reality Show, there was a 
lull in the action. Campaign 2012 had become one long 
series of attack ads, as each side spent hundreds of millions 
to discredit the other. With both parties zeroing in 
on jobs, abortion rights, same sex marriage, Medicare/ 
Medicaid, immigration and family values, foreign policy 
issues were not hot button issues. 

The only new excitement from the Republican side was 
Mitt Romney¡¦s selection of Wisconsin Congressman Paul 
Ryan as his running mate. 

With grand fanfare, on Saturday August 11th, the stagnant 
campaign put on a grand spectacle for the official 
announcement. 

In keeping with the tradition of The Presidential Reality 
Show, the stage had been carefully chosen to capture 
the trite, sophomoric superficiality of the campaign and 
the campaigners. 

In the heat of summer, on a Saturday morning (the least-
watched news day of the week), at 9 a.m. ET, with most of 
the nation still asleep, the flags waved, the music boomed, 
and the crowd roared as candidate Romney bounded down 
the stairs of the battleship Wisconsin onto the red-whiteand-
blue stage to introduce the man of the hour. 

The symbolism aptly reflected not only the level of intellect 
but the true heart and soul of Campaign 2012. Here 
they were, the two ¡§tough guys,¡¨ neither of whom had ever 
worn a military uniform, pretending to be warriors against 
the steely backdrop of the mothballed ¡§man o¡¦ war.¡¨ 

Political Whores Mitt ¡§Missionary¡¨ Romney, who 
was prime draft bait during the Vietnam War, dodged the 
draft to serve as a Mormon missionary in Catholic, wine-
drinking, caffeine-addicted, cigarette-smoking, Bridget-
Bardot-loving France. 

Enter Paul ¡§Altar Boy¡¨ Ryan. Goody two-shoes. Class 
president. Prom king. The student voted by his high 
school classmates ¡§Brown-Noser of the Year¡¨ who, like 
Romney, was born on Easy Street but pretends he¡¦s just 
one of the guys. 

Team Romney ran on a fiscal platform that demanded 
the harshest of sacrifices from the people least able to sacrifice, 
while pruning tax rates for the biggest corporations 
and richest individuals. On the perennially key social issue 
of abortion Ryan was equally harsh, calling for abortion 
to be outlawed, even in cases of rape and incest. 

¡§Missionary¡¨ had several positions on the matter, 
changing depending on what office he was seeking. When 
he ran for Governor of pro-choice Massachusetts in 2002, 
he declared: ¡§I will preserve and protect a woman¡¦s right 
to choose ¡K that a woman should have the right to make 
her own choices whether or not to have an abortion.¡¨ 

Then, when seeking the Republican candidacy for 
president in 2004, he changed his position: ¡§In my view 
we are wrong to accept abortion other than in cases of 
rape and incest.¡¨ 

Thus, under the newly revised Mitt doctrine, only if a 
woman in impregnated by a rapist, or by some testosterone-
raging family member, or when a woman¡¦s life is at 
risk, was an abortion permissible. 

However, should young kids or couples who did not 
necessarily love each other do what a lot of people like to 
do, and she gets pregnant, well, that¡¦s just too bad. Rich, 
poor, kids, adults, jobless or homeless, you had sex and 
now you must have the baby! 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Why? Because that¡¦s what Presidential candidate Mitt 
now believes and as President Mitt he promises that you¡¦ll 
be forced to do as he says. 

POLITICAL SLIME 

And in keeping with the time-honored political practice 
of saying what you need to say to get elected, changing 
position when politically expedient and then lying about 
what you said you would do and what you actually did, 
Mitt chose a running mate who would live up to those 
standards. 

Vice Presidential selection Paul Ryan, with his fervent 
championing of a no-abortion-under-any-circumstances 
position, did what was politically correct: He immediately 
changed his position to accommodate his running 
mate¡¦s changed position. When asked by reporters to explain 
how, after years of being on record for his hard-
line anti-abortion beliefs, he could abandon them, Ryan 
responded: ¡§Look, I¡¦m proud of my record, I¡¦m proud of 
my record, Mitt Romney is going to be president and the 
president sets policy.¡¨ 

Thus, if the vice presidential candidate, a declared 
devout Catholic and former altar boy, alters his steadfast 
principles to comply with the president, and stops believing 
in what he professed to believe, it was implicit that the 
general public was expected to comply as well. Explicitly, 
devoutly expressed principles don¡¦t count in America ¡V 
the land of freedom, liberty and democracy. Policy counts 
and the president sets policy. Behave or Beware! 

Publisher¡¦s Note: Following Ryan¡¦s selection as Romney¡¦s 
running mate, inconsistencies between what he said and 
did arose. From claiming to support smaller government, 
but actually voting for billions in bank bailouts and corporate 
subsidies, and then accepting stimulus money, to 
claiming to have run a marathon an hour faster than he 
really did, Ryan¡¦s political performance was near perfect: 
Lies, dishonesty and deception. 

Trends Analysis: On the issue of lies, Republican and 
Democrat politicians were joined in a rare instance of true 
bipartisanship: No lie was too big or too small to tell as 
long as it advanced agendas or produced desired results. 

For his part, President Barack ¡§backtrack¡¨ Obama 
boasted about his own enviable track record of big lies 
and empty promises. From promising to take no money 
from special interests and lobbyists but taking millions 
to cleansing Washington of insiders while staffing his 
Administration with nothing but insiders; from vowing 
government transparency but operating in impenetrable 
secrecy; from promising to close the Guantanamo prison 
camp within a year to letting it stand while adding war-

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
rantless wiretapping, a renewed and reinforced Patriot Act, 
overseas renditions, kill lists and targeted assassinations 
to his vision of human rights ¡K the litany of Obama¡¦s lies 
and deception goes on. 

Only in politics, where lies are renamed ¡§misspeaking¡¨ 
and soft-pedaled as mere ¡§flip flops,¡¨ is such behavior tolerated 
and accepted. 

In everyday life ¡V in relationships, friendships, partnerships, 
business, social intercourse ¡V where lies are lies, 
hypocrisy is hypocrisy and cheating is cheating ¡V no one 
is allowed to get away with it with impunity. 

THE PRESIDENTIAL REALITY SHOW 

Instead of the public being outraged and/or disgusted, 
when it comes to politics, entire societies suspend their 
critical faculties and the sense of right-and-wrong they¡¦ve 
been taught since childhood. 

The 2012 Republican and Democratic Conventions are 
exemplars of this bizarre abdication of the human spirit: 
each party spends several days and tens of millions of taxpayer 
dollars to stage a made-for-TV spectacle showcasing 
a steady stream of carefully scripted political character actors 
orating from teleprompters before a wildly applauding 
cast of thousands. 

They were all there: The rabbis, priests, and ministers; 
the maimed veterans who didn¡¦t regret having sacrificed 
limbs to make America safe for democracy. And to pull 
in the Hispanic vote there were the baby-faced, perfectly 
groomed, shiny new Latino stars ¡V coached to read their 
carefully scripted speeches with true teleprompted passion, 
pausing, smiling and choking up on cue, in anticipation of 
the crowds¡¦ response to the predictable applause lines. 

And then there was the masterful camera work, panning 
over the convention hall to capture the seemingly 
spontaneous, but actually scripted reactions designed to 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
affirm successive highlights of the speech. The close-ups 
of heads nodding in agreement, the physical validation of 
the speakers¡¦ vacuous, fatuous rhetoric. For Obama, they 
were all there: the aging VFW member with a cap on his 
head and a flag in his hand, the full spectrum of minorities, 
the moms with kids on their laps, the union workers, 
American Indians in traditional dress, and even a couple 
of ¡§Arabs for Obama.¡¨ 

Republican or Democrat, a rainbow coalition of working 
class, middle class, upper class rose, clapped and 
barked on cue like trained seals. 

And on stage, in their designer dresses and Brooks 
Brothers suits, perfectly coiffed and excessively Botoxed, 
were the party hacks. 

OH, THEM! 

These were the same people you hated in high school and 
college, the suck-ups who campaigned tirelessly for class 
president or head of the student council, the insincere 
glad-handers, back-slappers, suck-ups and brown-nosers. 

Having never wavered from their career paths, the most 
ambitious of them had successfully glad-handed, backslapped, 
sucked up and brown nosed their way onto the 
plastically patriotic red, white and blue convention stage. 

Each speaker had a mission: to discredit the other 
party and its candidate. They vied with each other over 

who could express the most heart-wrenching tale of the 
difficulties and endless hardships they had to surmount 
to live ¡§The American Dream.¡¨ 

In addresses replete with sound bites, talking-points 
and every cliche in the book, each speaker celebrated his 
or her accomplishments, paid homage to the wonderful 
families they came from who had made their success possible 
and declared what devoted family men and women 
they all were now. 

With image burnished and credentials established, 
they launched into their attack. 

Trends Analysis: Prior to the era of The Presidential Reality 
Show, conventions often reflected political reality. 
Prior to the 1970s they were often raucous gatherings of 
delegates and party bosses wrangling, wheeling and dealing 
over who they would select as their presidential candidate. 
The outcome was not foreordained and there was 
actually some suspense to them. 

However, over the subsequent decades, they have not 
only lost all elements of drama and suspense, but have 
devolved into tightly scripted, formulaic pep rallies, what 
former TV newsman Ted Koppel has derided as ¡§more of 
an infomercial than a news event.¡¨ 

And so today, the sole purpose of these elaborate, expensive, 
corny, Hollywood-style extravaganzas is to deliver 
a political sales pitch to the American people. No longer 
¡§conventions¡¨ in their original form, the quadrennial 
gatherings have degenerated into coronation ceremonies 
crowning a pre-selected party king or queen to serve as 
Pretender to The Throne. 

Stand By Your Man By 2012, The Presidential 
Reality Show had become a Family Affair. On the Republican 
side, the Romneys were pitched as the most perfect, richest, 
nicest, most caring people that ever walked the planet. 
Always upbeat, never down, they were a smart, frugal, sensible 
couple who deeply loved both God and country. 

On the Democratic side, it was pretty much the same 
story, except they didn¡¦t talk as much about God. But the 
Obamas made up for it by being perfect poor people who 
got rich through hard work. 

Back in the earlier, black-and-white days of The Presidential 
Reality Show, the good, loyal wives of the contestants 
played a simpler auxiliary role, standing decorously 
beside their man in mostly silent support. Just as the regular 
crop of TV reality shows present only an orchestrated 
artificial reality, so in 2012, the last vestiges of any reality 
were excised from The Presidential Reality Show. 

As everyone knows, in real life, it¡¦s virtually unheard 
of for a wife to rave on about her husband the way Ann 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


and Michelle do, especially after decades of marriage. Yet 
in the reality TV world of national conventions, hours of 
prime time were devoted to the perfect wives extolling the 
virtues of their perfect husbands. 

MY GUY 

Unlike TV Land¡¦s typical husband, commonly portrayed 
as a slovenly, lazy, overweight, dopey, beer-drinking 
couch potato who constantly screws up and couldn¡¦t survive 
were it not for his all-knowing, supermom wife and 
their two amazing, special and utterly exceptional children 
¡K on The Presidential Reality Show, hubby was put 
on the pedestal. 

In the magical, mystical, supernatural world of politics, 
the dim-witted jerk who can barely tie his shoes, boil water 
or screw in a light bulb is transformed into a shining example 
of the greatest, smartest, bestest husband and daddy 
that any woman could ever hope to be impregnated by. 

He is the all-inclusive, all-around man who rides a 
horse, pets dogs, plays basketball, shoots pool, does pushups, 
(hardly ever burps, never farts), fixes the kids¡¦ bikes 
and goes over the river and through the woods to grandma¡¦s 
house for Christmas dinner. No doors slammed, 
dishes thrown, nor voices raised in the perfect households 
of the perfect people. 

Above all, this prince of a man loves his kids and family 
and is therefore qualified to stand at the helm of the 
world¡¦s last remaining, though swiftly declining, economic 
and military superpower. 

The Grand Manipulation Part Super Bowl 
halftime show, part mega-church revival meeting, the 
conventions are as fictional as anything coming out of 
Hollywood. Yet millions of red, white and blue Americans 
sit through these well-rehearsed, elaborate charades and 
take them at face value, while a gaggle of political pundits 
provide long-winded commentary on the actors¡¦ performances, 
as though they reflected reality rather than role 
playing. 

Had The Presidential Reality Show been only a Hollywood 
production, it could have been written off as entertainment 
and it would have been a comedy, had it not 
been so tragic. Here were two men auditioning before the 
nation for the job of ¡§decider¡¨ and Commander-in-Chief, 
being introduced and spoken for by their wives and with 
their kids in tow. 

STRANGE BREED 

In the real world, who would take their wife and kids 
along when applying for a top executive job ¡V or any job ¡V 
and expect to be taken seriously? 

Fiscal policy, national defense, social issues, geopolitics, 
the environment, effectively carrying out the overwhelming 
responsibilities attached to the American presidential 
office (or any nation¡¦s top office) has nothing to do 
with who your daddy was, what your momma did, where 
your kids go to school and in fact, whether or not you have 
a family at all. 

Running a country is not a family affair, yet, in the 
2012 Presidential Reality Show, such irrelevancies were 
treated as top qualifications for the job. And neither the 
public nor the pundits questioned the stupidity of it all. 
Who cares about whether their doctor or dentist has a 
family life or even a family? Does anyone ask the captain 
of the cruise ship how many kids he has? Is it important 
to know what¡¦s going on between your car mechanic and 
his wife? 

It was a grand manipulation, a ploy designed to distract 
the public from the unworthiness and incompetence of 
two mediocre men: Obama with his track record of broken 
promises and failed policies and Romney with his reputation 
as a ruthless corporate vulture flip-flopper ¡K both of 
them buried beneath a deluge of sentimental slop. 

It was The Presidential Reality Show. But while the 
media and pundits panned the contestants¡¦ performances 
as weak on substance and vague on solutions, they weren¡¦t 
calling it what it was: a multimillion dollar cheap act. 

Barack Obama¡¦s uninspiring speech 

It was his uplifting convention speech in Boston 
in 2004 that shot Barack Obama to stardom ¡K 
The US president did offer some trademark flourishes. 
But they could not make up for the lack of 
new substance. Following Mitt Romney¡¦s largely 
content-free address in Tampa last week, Mr. 
Obama had an opportunity to show up his opponent. 
As it is, both emerge from convention season 
with question marks over their campaigns. (FT, 8 
September 2012) 

Of course there was ¡§lack of new substance¡¨ in Obama¡¦s 
speech, because after three and half years in office his 
track record proved him to be a man of no substance. 

And anyone taking the time to review the dozens of Republican 
debates leading up to the convention will hear 
nothing but an unremitting barrage of Romney attacks 
upon the President¡¦s performance, while he offered ¡§content 
free¡¨ solutions of his own. 

No, the ¡§question marks¡¨ were not ¡§over their campaigns.¡¨ 
The question marks hovered over the capabilities 
of the contestants. But the media were too gutless, too 
stupid or too partisan to call the charade a charade or a 
spade a spade. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


IT¡¦S NOT THE ECONOMY, STUPID 


Unlike 2008, when the crisis-stricken economy dominated 
the presidential race, in 2012, even though money and 
jobs were prominently on the minds of the America public, 
they were often overshadowed by other news or candidate 
gaffes, and polls showed it. 

The race, which had been a dead heat prior to the 
conventions, widened to a five-point Obama advantage, 
despite the gloomy economic news that broke just hours 
after the President¡¦s convention speech: 

Obama Momentum Slowed by 
Jobs Report That May Spur Stimulus 


President Barack Obama, a day after getting his 
highest approval rating in more than a year, was 
confronted by a worse-than-expected slowdown in 
the job market that threatened to undercut enthusiasm 
for his re-election. 

About 12 hours after Obama took the stage at 
the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, 
North Carolina, to accept the party¡¦s nomination 
for a second term as president, Republican nominee 
Mitt Romney seized on the labor data, underlining 
the challenge the economy presents for the 
administration. 

Yesterday¡¦s U.S. Labor Department report 
drove the political debate as both candidates 
campaigned in the swing states of Iowa and New 
Hampshire. The figures showed the economy 
added 96,000 jobs in August, down from a revised 
gain of 141,000 in July and fewer than forecast. 
While the unemployment rate fell to 8.1 percent 
from 8.3 percent in July, the report showed 
368,000 Americans left the job market and the 
share of the working-age population in the labor 
force slumped to 63.5 percent, the lowest since 
1981. (Bloomberg, 8 September 2012) 

By all measures, the fundamentals of the economy were 
not sound. When analyzed in depth by Dr. Paul Craig 
Roberts, Assistant Treasury Secretary during the Reagan 
administration, the job numbers revealed a United States 
rotting out at its core: 

Spinning Bad Financial 
News Into Good 


by Dr. Paul Craig Roberts 

Friday¡¦s payroll jobs report says that 96,000 new jobs were 
created in August and that the unemployment rate, known 
as the U.3, fell from 8.3 percent to 8.1 percent. As 96,000 

new jobs are not enough to keep up with population 
growth [150,000 per month is needed], the decline in the 

U.3 unemployment rate was caused by 368,000 discouraged 
job seekers giving up on finding employment and 
dropping out of the work force. 
Discouraged workers are not included in the U.3 measure 
of unemployment, which makes the measure useless. 
The only purpose of the U.3 is to keep bad news out of the 
news. The U.3 unemployment rate only measures those 
who have not been discouraged by the inability to find a 
job and are still actively seeking employment. 

The government produces another unemployment 
measure, the U.6, which includes people who have been 
discouraged by the inability to find a job and have been 
out of the work force for less than a year. This measure of 
unemployment is 14.7 percent, a number that would get 
plenty of media attention if reported. 

When the long-term (more than one year) discouraged 
workers are included, the US unemployment rate is about 
22 percent. In other words, the real US rate of unemployment 
is almost three times higher than the reported headline 
rate of 8.1 percent. 

What is the purpose of reporting an unemployment 
rate that is about one-third the real unemployment rate? 
The only answer is deception through Happy News. 

MORE THAN MEETS THE EYE 

Let¡¦s have a look at those 96,000 jobs. What kind of high-
tech, high-income super jobs is ¡§the world¡¦s only superpower, 
the indispensable nation, the world¡¦s greatest economy 
and capitalist heaven¡¨ creating? The answer is¡K lowly paid 
Third World jobs, which is why there is not and cannot be 
an economic recovery. All the good jobs have been moved 
offshore in order to maximize the incomes of the rich. 

According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), 
28,300 of the 96,000 jobs, or 29 percent, are waitresses 
and bartenders. 

Health care and social services, primarily ambulatory 
health care services and home health care services, provided 
21,700 jobs or 22.6 percent of the jobs. 

So, 52 percent of the new jobs created by the American 
superpower are lowly paid waitresses, bartenders, practical 
nurses, and hospital orderlies. 

Highly paid manufacturing jobs declined by 15,000. 
The incomes lost by these jobs most likely exceed the income 
gains from the waitresses, bartenders, and hospital 
orderlies jobs. 

Where did the other 46,000 jobs come from? 

Formerly, in hard times, government employment 
would expand but, despite Republican propaganda, not in 
today¡¦s mean times. Government (federal, state and local) 
lost 7,000 jobs. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Professional and business services gained 28,000 jobs, 
primarily in computer systems design and related services 
(mainly Indians on H-1B work visas) and management 
and technical consulting services (mainly former corporate 
professional employees who now eke out a living by 
consulting for their former employers, without pension or 
health benefits ¡V in other words, people who are working 
the same jobs for less money). 

These three categories account for 81 percent of the 
new jobs. 

Where are the remainder? 

There are a few thousand new jobs in finance and insurance, 
jobs that absorb consumer incomes but produce 
no product. Telephone, cable, water, electricity, and heating 
produced 8,800 jobs. Transportation and warehousing 
to store unsold goods produced 5,700 jobs. Retail trade, 
primarily food and beverage stores (alcohol), produced 
6,100 jobs. 

And there you have it. The ¡§powerful American economy¡¨ 
is an economy that cannot produce its own clothes 
and shoes, or the manufactured products, including high 
technology products, that it consumes, or its own energy, 
all of which it imports by issuing more debt. 

The ¡§great hegemonic American economy¡¨ is on the 
verge of total collapse because the only way it can pay for 
the imports that sustain it is by issuing more debt and 
printing more money. Once the debt and money creation 
undermines the dollar as the world¡¦s reserve currency, the 
US will become a Third World country, much to the relief 
of the rest of the world. 

On September 9, Mario Draghi, the head of the European 
Central Bank, announced for propaganda purposes 
that the ECB would buy up the sovereign debt of the troubled 
EU member governments if, and only if, the assisted 
member governments agreed to the conditions that would 
be imposed. 

In other words, Draghi told Greece, Spain and Italy, 
¡§The ECB will buy your bonds if you do what we tell you!¡¨ 
Draghi¡¦s conditions are a combination of austerity measures 
and the surrender of financial sovereignty. Since 
the troubled debtor countries already had that option, 
Draghi¡¦s scheme doesn¡¦t change anything. However, the 
NY Stock Exchange used Draghi¡¦s announcement to gin 
up day-trading profits. 

Draghi says that the money that the ECB will pour into 
purchasing Greek, Italian and Spanish bonds will be offset 
by draining reserves from the European banking system, 
hardly a helpful operation to stressed banks and the 
European recession. 

It is difficult to imagine worse news than Draghi¡¦s. Yet 
stock markets rose. This result is more evidence that financial 
markets are not to be trusted. 

But you will never, ever, hear this fact from the financial 
press. 

A financial system based on lies and deceptions cannot 
last forever. ¡E 


Trend Forecast: The collapse should have occurred immediately 
following the Panic of ¡¦08, an economic explosion 
that reverberated around the world. Although the 
collapse was postponed by schemes undreamed of ¡V rescue 
plans, bailouts, stimulus and rounds of quantitative 
easing engineered by successive administrations and the 
Federal Reserve ¡V the trillions spent, borrowed and loaned 
would provide only symptom relief for what was a chronic, 
degenerative economic condition. 

Back then, there was no way for us to predict that Uncle 
Sam, incessantly championing himself as a capitalist, 
would prove to be a closet fascist ¡V merging state and corporate 
powers and stealing trillions of the people¡¦s money 
to bail out too-big-to-fail banks, financiers and transnational 
businesses. 

But regardless of what scams they would try and whatever 
politicians and Wall Street promised, Gerald Celente 
saw through the con game and was certain that what was 
being touted as ¡§recovery¡¨ was, in fact, the greatest financial 
cover-up in history. (See Trend Alert: Celente on Russia 
Today ¡V ¡§Cover up, not Recovery,¡¨ 15 September 2009) 

LESSER OF TWO EVILS 

While each of the presidential contestants whistled and 
danced to a different tune, there was little to distinguish 
one from the other in terms of substance. 

Obama, positioning himself as a born-again populist, 
took on the role of President for the People, and enemy 
of big-bank oligopolies, Wall Street criminals, corporate 
welfare and environmental deregulation and desecration. 

And while he played the role well on-stage, off-stage 
his track record included giving trillions to the big banks 
with no strings attached. Under his administration, not 
one White Shoe Boy ¡V the big bankers and top financiers 
responsible for the massive crimes and corruption ¡V was 
prosecuted. And although Obama talked a good game 
about stopping illegitimate foreclosure practices and 
helping people keep their homes, the facts proved he did 
very little. 

FRACK YOU 

On the environment, his core base of eco-sensitive liberals 
suddenly went deaf, blind and dumb when Obama 
boasted in his Convention speech, ¡§We¡¦ve opened millions 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


of new acres for oil and gas exploration in the last three 
years, and we¡¦ll open more.¡¨ Was it hypocrisy that kept 
them silent when Obama promised to ¡§keep investing in 
clean coal¡¨ (an oxymoron)? Were they so gullible and 
infatuated that they really believe he could make good 
on his promise that, under his watch, no major environmental 
accidents would follow from his opening of the 
pristine Arctic to oil exploration? 

What was it that restrained those tree-huggers from 
protesting Obama¡¦s pledge to ¡§develop a hundred-year supply 
of natural gas that¡¦s right beneath our feet¡¨? Did these 
die-hard anti-frackers suddenly think that because it was 
Obama making the promise, all that gas ¡§right beneath our 
feet¡¨ would miraculously waft up all by itself without having 
to pump millions of tons of toxic chemicals and billions 
of gallons of precious water into the earth? 

Was this abandonment of principles justified by the 
President¡¦s promise to create ¡§600,000 new jobs in natural 
gas alone?¡¨ 

Was it a failing of the human spirit? Or was it a character 
flaw that allowed otherwise sensible, intelligent people 
to lend their support to Obama, whose deeds were the 
antithesis of virtually everything they held sacred? 

Or were they just moral cowards in deep denial, not 
man nor woman enough to admit they¡¦d been conned by 
the Conmander-in-Chief? 

Liberals had spent eight years bashing George W. 
Bush for waging unprovoked and unjustified wars, but 
gave their Nobel Peace Prize-winning President carte 
blanche to continue or intensify the very worst and most 
vicious of the Bush policies: the troop surge in Afghanistan, 
expanded CIA operations, extra-judicial killings of 
¡§suspected militants,¡¨ escalation of drone attacks, outBushing-
Bush in asserting the right to kill anyone anywhere, 
including US citizens, without even the pretense of 
judicial review. And of course, there was his Libyan War. 

Whose Side is God On? While there was little 
true difference between the Lesser of Two Evils, what 
was presented as a defining issue separating Romney 
from Obama and Republican from Democrat was God. In 
this time of planet-wide economic uncertainty and global 
strife, God was dragged into the campaign: 

Paul Ryan Slams The Democrats 
For Removal Of ¡¥God¡¦ And Jerusalem 
From Democratic Platform 


Republican Vice Presidential candidate Paul 
Ryan appeared on Fox & Friends and ¡K weighed 
in on the Democratic party¡¦s platform which has 
removed the word ¡§God¡¨ and omitted any sup


port for Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. (Fox, 5 
September 2012) 

Not wanting to get on the wrong side of God or Israel, the 
Democrats swiftly reinstated both God and Country into 
their platform. 

Dems Quickly Switch to Include 
¡§God,¡¨ ¡§Jerusalem¡¨ 

Moments after convention chairman Antonio Villaraigosa 
gaveled in day two of the Democratic 
Convention, the hall burst into chaos as Democrats 
voted to amend their party¡¦s platform to include 
the word ¡§God¡¨ and name Jerusalem as the 
capital of Israel. 

An Obama campaign official said President 
Obama personally requested that ¡§God¡¨ be put 
back into the platform. ¡§Why did they change 
that?¡¨ Obama said, according to the official, when 
he heard the word had been removed. 

The changes came after Republicans spent 
the morning criticizing Democrats for removing 
Jerusalem and God from their platform, which 
was adopted during the start of the convention on 
Tuesday. The Republican platform mentions God 
12 times. 

GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney said 
Wednesday that taking the word ¡§God¡¨ out of 
the Democratic platform proved that the party is 
¡§veering further and further away into an extreme 
wing that Americans don¡¦t recognize.¡¨ 

Romney¡¦s vice presidential running mate, Paul 
Ryan, said Wednesday that the omission of God in 
the DNC platform was ¡§rather peculiar¡¨ and ¡§is 
not in keeping with our founding documents, our 
founding vision.¡¨ (ABC, 5 September 2012) 

While God had made it back onto the Democratic platform, 
in fact, He had not been included in the Constitution 
and was mentioned only twice in the Declaration of 
Independence, which refers to ¡§the Laws of Nature and 
of Nature¡¦s God,¡¨ and to the ¡§Creator.¡¨ Other than these 
two honorable mentions, God was, despite Ryan¡¦s assertion, 
not a factor in America¡¦s ¡§founding documents¡¨ or 
its ¡§founding vision.¡¨ 

Keeping the God fires burning and playing the always-
safe God card, Romney declared ¡§I will not take God out 
of the name of our platform, I will not take God off our 
coins and I will not take God out of my heart. We¡¦re a nation 
that¡¦s bestowed by God.¡¨ 

Publisher¡¦s Note: That God¡¦s presence or absence on a po-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
litical platform, in a nation founded upon the sacred principle 
of a separation of church and state, had become a major 
campaign issue and was treated seriously by the Presstitutes, 
was itself a testament to how far America had strayed from its 
founding vision and how debased it had become. 

What drivel. Congressman Ryan denouncing the Democrats 
for not including God on their platform; President 
Obama demanding that God be reinstated; and Missionary 
Mitt with his impassioned vow to keep God in his platform, 
on coins, and in his heart. 

Was it all political posturing or did these jackasses really 
believe the ¡§Creator¡¨ gave a good goddamn about 
what they wanted or thought, or about which candidate 
won or lost? 

What God were they referring to? The God of the Afghan, 
Iraq and Libyan Wars? The God of Drones? The 
God of Rendition, who approves of ¡§enhanced interrogation 
techniques¡¨? The God of Surveillance? The God of 
Strip Search, who loves to watch people spread their legs 
and bend over? Or the God who, rather than selling what 
he possesses and giving it to the poor, parks his wealth 
in Swiss bank accounts and Cayman Island tax shelters? 

If that was the God they were referring to, he belonged 
in their platform. 

But if they were all talking about the Christian God 
they profess to love and obey we (without claiming au


thority to speak for Jesus Christ) would humbly submit, 
given His doctrine, that He¡¦d rather hang on the cross 
than stand on either of their platforms. 

Back on Earth With God put in his proper place, 
and Jerusalem (not Tel Aviv) officially recognized on both 
platforms as the rightful capital of Israel, the Iranian nuclear 
issue, having briefly faded from the headlines, was back 
in the news by mid-September and Israel was again playing 
a conspicuous role in shaping the presidential race. 

In his Republican Convention speech in late August, 
Mitt Romney slammed President Obama for not meeting 
Israel¡¦s demands for immediate action to forestall Iran¡¦s 
nuclear ambitions and accused him of ¡§throwing Israel 
under the bus.¡¨ 

¡§Every American is less secure today because he has 
failed to slow Iran¡¦s nuclear threat,¡¨ Romney asserted. 

Responding to Romney¡¦s charges, Obama, in his Convention 
speech, reaffirmed that America¡¦s commitment to 
Israel, ¡§must not waver¡¨ while warning that ¡§The Iranian 
government must face a world that stays united against its 
nuclear ambitions.¡¨ 

Impatient for immediate action, from out of the sidelines 
and into the headlines, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 
jumped into the middle of the Presidential race: 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Israeli Sharpens Call for 
United States to Set Iran Trigger 


WASHINGTON ¡X Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 
of Israel inserted himself into the most 
contentious foreign policy issue of the American 
presidential campaign on Tuesday, criticizing the 
Obama administration for refusing to set clear 
¡§red lines¡¨ on Iran¡¦s nuclear progress that would 
prompt the United States 

its coverage in dispassionate journalese: The Israeli Prime 
Minister ¡§inserted himself¡¨ into the ¡§American presidential 
campaign.¡¨ 

No outrage, no indignation, that the leader of Israel was 
¡§willing to use the pressure of the presidential election to 
try to force Mr. Obama to commit to attack Iran under 
certain conditions.¡¨ Had it been any other allied leader 
trying to make ¡§maximum use of his political leverage¡¨ 

to dragoon America into yet 

to undertake a military another war, it would have 
strike. As a result, he said, ¡§Mr. prime minister, you want a crude, set off a political and media 
the administration has no 
¡§moral right¡¨ to restrain 
Israel from taking military 
rude, unprecedented, reckless, and risky 
intervention in the US elections. ¡K Who are you 
firestorm. Had America renounced 
its sovereignty? Was 
Israel calling the shots, or the 
action of its own. 
Mr. Netanyahu¡¦s unusually 
harsh public comtrying 
to replace ¡K the Administration in 
Washington or that in Tehran?¡§ 
bombs, as the case may be? 
Instead the debate, such as 
it was, focused on whether or 

ments about Israel¡¦s most 
important ally ¡K laid bare 
the tension between him and President Obama 
over how to handle Iran. They also suggested that 
he is willing to use the pressure of the presidential 
election to try to force Mr. Obama to commit 
to attack Iran under certain conditions. 

Mr. Netanyahu, speaking at a news conference 
in Jerusalem said, ¡§Those in the international community 
who refuse to put red lines before Iran don¡¦t 
have a moral right to place a red light before Israel.¡¨ 

In demanding that Mr. Obama effectively issue 
an ultimatum to Iran, Mr. Netanyahu appeared to 
be making maximum use of his political leverage 
at a time when Mr. Obama¡¦s Republican opponent, 
Mitt Romney, has sought to make an issue of what 
Mr. Romney says is the administration¡¦s lack of 
support for Israel. 

It is not clear what level of development in Iran¡¦s 
nuclear program would constitute a ¡§red line¡¨ in 
Israeli eyes. Dore Gold, president of the Jerusalem 
Center for Public Affairs, a research institute, and 
a former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations, 
said in an interview last week: 

Mr. Netanyahu, who is highly attuned to American 
politics, seemed to be using his comments to 
pressure Mr. Obama to specify at which point the 
United States would be prepared to take military 
action against Iran, perhaps at the United Nations 
General Assembly opening this month. (NYT, 11 
September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: Rather than use language appropriate 
to this overt attempt by a foreign power to manipulate the 
outcome of America¡¦s presidential race, the Times couched 

not to support an Israeli at


tack, rather than the condemnation 
of ¡§who the hell are they to tell the United States 
of America what to do and when to do it?¡¨ 

While the American media and its politicians were too 
timid to openly criticize Netanyahu, his inappropriate intrusion 
into the US elections was condemned in the plainest 
language by Shaul Mofaz, head of Israel¡¦s Kadima party: 

¡§Mr. prime minister, you want a crude, rude, unprecedented, 
reckless, and risky intervention in the US elections. 
Tell us who you serve and for what? Why are 
you putting your hand deep into the ballot boxes of the 
American electorate? Who are you trying to replace ¡K 
the Administration in Washington or that in Tehran?¡¨ 
(Christian Science Monitor, 5 September 2012) 

And as for Netanyahu¡¦s reprimand that ¡§Those in the international 
community who refuse to put red lines before 
Iran don¡¦t have a moral right to place a red light before 
Israel¡¨ ¡V it was a red herring, there was no ¡§red light.¡¨ 

Other than the billions it received yearly from American 
taxpayers, Israel was free to do as it pleased. What was 
being left out of the discussion was that Israel lacked the 
firepower and needed United States military support in 
order to launch an attack against Iran with any hope of 
succeeding. 

A ¡§Bibi Bomb¡¨ In late September, at the annual 
gathering of world leaders at the UN, President Obama, 
in his speech before the General Assembly, reiterated his 
position that ¡§a nuclear-armed Iran is not a challenge that 
can be contained ¡K The United States will do what we 
must to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.¡¨ 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
With Obama suddenly taking a 4 percent lead over Romney 
in Florida and maintaining a comfortable 65 percent to 
24 percent overall lead among Jewish voters, the political 
pressure for an immediate ¡§red 
line¡¨ decision abated. 

In a subsequent appearance 
before the General Assembly, 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu gave a speech that 
should have been denounced as 
the ravings of a lunatic, and put 
on a performance that should 
have had him laughed off the 
stage. 

While declaring that he 
may postpone a military attack 
against Iran¡¦s nuclear facilities, he 
launched a tirade that compared 
the Iranian government to Al Qaeda which he described as 
¡§a fanatic ideology bent on world domination,¡¦ adding that 
¡§It makes little differences whether these lethal weapons 
are in the hands of the world¡¦s most dangerous terrorist regime, 
or the world¡¦s most dangerous terrorist organization.¡¨ 

To drive the point home of the danger Iran posed and 
why it must be stopped, he displayed a cartoon diagram 


of a bomb, so infantile in its execution that even the most 
provincial among the UN delegates should have seen it as 
either an insult to their intelligence or surreal. 

A cartoon bomb? This man, 
with one finger on the ¡§launch 
button¡¨ and a crayon in his hand 
drawing a ¡§red line¡¨ just below 
the fuse of the bomb was showing 
the world how close it was to 
doomsday! 

¡§The hour is getting late, very 
late,¡¨ he foamed, ¡§The red line 
must be drawn on Iran¡¦s nuclear 
enrichment program because 
these facilities are the only nuclear 
installations we can see 
and target.¡¨ 

Instead of the UN guards putting 
him in straightjacket and hustling him off stage, he 
was allowed to finish his speech. 

Trends Analysis: There were no denunciations from the 
American Presstitutes of Bibi¡¦s belligerent and delirious 
harangue, nor was there mockery of his ludicrous cartoon 
bomb and puerile drawing of the red line. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


In fact, it was the opposite. The New York Times reported 
the UN bomb drawing incident with all due Prime 
Ministerial respect: 

¡§With an almost professorial air, Mr. Netanyahu 
held up a diagram of a bomb with a fuse to show 
the Israeli view of Iran¡¦s progress in achieving the 
ability to make a nuclear weapon. He drew a red 
line through the point at which Iran would have 
amassed enough medium-enriched uranium to 
make a bomb ¡X which he said would be in the 
spring or summer of 2013.¡¨ 

Imagine if Putin, Chavez or Ahmadinejad pulled a stunt 
like Netanyahu¡¦s. The media would have had a field day 
and politicians would have been piling it on ¡V denouncing, 
ridiculing and pronouncing them unfit to rule. 

And there was no warning issued to Netanyahu by UN 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon ¡V as there had been to 
Ahmadinejad prior to his speech ¡V of the dangers of incendiary 
rhetoric that could result in ¡§potentially harmful 
consequences.¡¨ 

Nor was there political fallout following Bibi¡¦s assertion 
that Iran was ¡§the world¡¦s most dangerous terrorist 
organization ¡K bent on world domination,¡¨ a claim so idiotic 
that even the Western Presstitutes should have found 
it too implausible to swallow. 

Iran with a bomb! World domination! Think of it! 

First America, then Russia, then China, followed by 
Europe ¡K and in the blink of a cosmic eye, Estonia, Bangladesh, 
Haiti, Borneo, Brunei, Iceland ¡K Disneyland! 
There would be no stopping them. No more Walmarts, 
Starbucks, Dunkin Donuts, McDonalds. Before you know 
it, we¡¦ll all be speaking Farsi and eating falafel. 

Draw the ¡§red line¡¨ before it¡¦s too late! 

Trend Forecast: Pre-or-post election, be it Romney or 
Obama, would America¡¦s President eventually bow to Israeli 
pressure for military action against Iran? If so, there 
can no longer be any question about the pervasive level of 
Israeli influence on American policy. 

Should there be an US/Israel attack on Iran, as we have 
long forecast, it will be the beginning of World War III. 
And with Israel¡¦s fingerprints all over it, it will unleash 
a global wave of anti-Semitism unparalleled in modern 
history. 

Publisher¡¦s Note: That attacking Iran was even being 
contemplated, much less vigorously promoted, in a destabilized 
Middle East wracked with violence and disintegrating 
into civil wars, could be termed nothing less than 
an act of total madness. 

9/11¡V11 


Suddenly God¡¦s place on the political platforms ¡V along 
with Iran, jobs and the economy ¡V was upstaged when, on 
September 11th, the 11th anniversary of 9/11, terror struck 
in Libya: 

Libya Attack Brings Challenges for U.S. 

CAIRO ¡X Islamist militants armed with antiaircraft 
weapons and rocket-propelled grenades 
stormed a lightly defended United States diplomatic 
mission in Benghazi, Libya, late Tuesday, 
killing the American ambassador and three 
members of his staff and raising questions about 
the radicalization of countries swept up in the 
Arab Spring. 

The ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens, was 
missing almost immediately after the start of an 
intense, four-hour firefight for control of the mission, 
and his body was not located until Wednesday 
morning at dawn, when he was found dead 
at a Benghazi hospital, American and Libyan officials 
said. 

American and European officials said that 
while many details about the attack remained 
unclear, the assailants seemed organized, well 
trained and heavily armed, and they appeared to 
have at least some level of advance planning. But 
the officials cautioned that it was too soon to tell 
whether the attack was related to the anniversary 
of the Sept. 11 attacks. 

Fighters involved in the assault, which was 
spearheaded by an Islamist brigade formed during 
last year¡¦s uprising against Col. Muammar el-
Qaddafi, said in interviews during the battle that 
they were moved to attack the mission by anger 
over a 14-minute, American-made video that depicted 
the Prophet Muhammad, Islam¡¦s founder, 
as a villainous, homosexual and child-molesting 
buffoon. Their attack followed by just a few hours 
the storming of the compound surrounding the 
United States Embassy in Cairo by an unarmed 
mob protesting the same video. On Wednesday, 
new crowds of protesters gathered outside the 
United States Embassies in Tunis and Cairo. 

Benghazi, awash in guns, has recently witnessed 
a string of assassinations as well as attacks 
on international missions, including a bomb said 
to be planted by another Islamist group that exploded 
near the United States mission there as 
recently as June. 

Obama administration officials and regional 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


officials scrambled to sort out conflicting reports 
about the attack and the motivation of the attackers. 
A senior Obama administration official told 
reporters during a conference call that ¡§it was 
clearly a complex attack,¡¨ but offered no details. 

Col. Wolfgang Pusztai, who until early August 
was Austria¡¦s defense attache to Libya and visited 
the country every month, said in an e-mail that 
he believed the attack was ¡§deliberately planned 
and executed¡¨ by a core group of about 30 to 40 
assailants who were ¡§well trained and organized.¡¨ 

Stationed in Benghazi during the uprising 
against Colonel Qaddafi, Mr. Stevens, who was 
fluent in Arabic and French, had become a local 
hero for his support to the Libyan rebels 
during their time of greatest need. (NYT, 12 
September 2012) 

The first ten words of this 2,304-word New York Times 
article told the untold story: ¡§Islamist militants armed 
with antiaircraft weapons and rocket-propelled grenades.¡¨ 
Were these the same rebels to whom Ambassador Stevens 
had ¡§become a local hero¡¨? 

Were these the same rebels for whom President Obama, 
former French President Sarkozy and Prime Minister David 
Cameron launched their ¡§humanitarian¡¨ mission to 
bring freedom and democracy to Libya? 

Or were the rebels that killed Ambassador Stevens 
The Libyan Islamic Fighting Group (LIFG) that Colonel 
Muammar Qaddafi had accused of fueling unrest and 
trying to overthrow his government and establish an Islamic 
state? (The same LIGF founded by Libyans that had 
fought against Soviet forces in Afghanistan, which the US 
had supported and who would subsequently play a key 
role in overthrowing the Qaddafi regime.) 

It was yet another grotesque example of American foreign 
policy achieving results diametrically opposed to 
those always-phony promises of bringing freedom and 
democracy to the repressed masses, especially when they 
were sitting on billions of gallons of oil and not playing 
the oil game according to America¡¦s rules. 

Stevens¡¦s death immediately became a political 
football that was thrown into The Presidential Reality 
Show spotlight: 

Romney¡¦s quick criticism 
on Libya draws rebuke 

President Obama and even some 
Republicans criticize Mitt Romney for assailing 
the initial administration response on the day 
of the attacks on U.S. diplomatic missions in 
Libya and Egypt 


WASHINGTON ¡X The deeply partisan nature 
of this year¡¦s campaign intruded abruptly into a 
foreign policy crisis as Republican nominee Mitt 
Romney sharply criticized the Obama administration 
for issuing an ¡§apology for America¡¦s values¡¨ 
and the president retorted that his challenger was 
politicizing a tragedy. 

Romney¡¦s speed in assailing ¡X his campaign issued 
its first statement Tuesday night ¡X appeared 
to some to violate traditions of at least momentary 
unity in the face of a foreign threat. 

In a brief news conference in Jacksonville, 
Fla., Romney said that it was ¡§a terrible course to 

¡X for America to stand in apology for our values.¡¨ 
¡§When our grounds are being attacked and being 
breached, that the first response of the United 
States must be outrage at the breach of the sovereignty 
of our nation. And apology for America¡¦s 
values is never the right course.¡¨ (NYT, 13 September 
2012) 

In ¡§Romney World¡¨ where America is always right, an 
¡§apology for America¡¦s values is never the right course,¡¨ 
even when America¡¦s deeds are direct contradictions of 
such American values as invading sovereign nations, 
starting wars that kill millions for trumped up reasons, 
targeted assassinations and drone attacks that kill civilians 
and that violate International law. 

As critics attacked Romney for his insensitivity in politicizing 
the ambassador¡¦s death, Obama picked up the 
fumble and ran with it. ¡§Gov. Romney seems to have a 
tendency to shoot first and aim later,¡¨ Obama said. ¡§As 
president, one of the things I¡¦ve learned is you can¡¦t do 
that; it¡¦s important for you to make sure that the statements 
that you make are backed up by the facts. We will 
not waver in our commitment to see that justice is done 
for this terrible act. And make no mistake, justice will 
be done.¡¨ 

In pursuit of ¡§justice¡¨ (i.e., killing anyone suspected 
of having participated in the consulate attack), 
Obama dispatched two battleships to Libya and sent 
in the Marines: 

Marines sent into Libya after 
envoy is killed in attack 

The US stepped up security at embassies around 
the world and sent a contingent of marines to Libya 
after its ambassador was killed in an attack on 
the US consulate in the eastern city of Benghazi. 

In what US officials said appeared to have been 
a planned operation, an armed group attacked 
the consulate for more than 4. hours on Tuesday 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


evening. It was the first time a US ambassador has 
been killed abroad in more than 30 years. 

The killing of the ambassador underlined the 
continued lawlessness in post-revolution Libya 
and its government¡¦s inability to restore security. 

It was also a deadly reminder for the US and its 
western allies of the complex realities of a more 
democratic north Africa that they are helping to 
shape ¡V one in which the old security state has 
been decimated and new governments are still 
struggling to assert themselves. 

The US played a key role in the international 
campaign that helped oust Muammar Gaddafi last 
year and has been a supporter of the new interim 
authority. 

¡§Today, many Americans are asking ¡V indeed, I 
asked myself ¡V how could this happen? How could 
this happen in a country we helped liberate, in a 
city we helped save from destruction?¡¨ said Hillary 
Clinton, US secretary of state. ¡§This question 
reflects just how complicated and, at times, how 
confounding the world can be.¡¨ (FT, 13 September 
2012) 

Trends Analysis: There was Hillary Clinton, the loudest 
war hawk in the White House, who had screeched for the 
invasion of Libya ¡V a sovereign nation at peace with the 
United States ¡V with a mission statement to overthrow its 
leader, asking rhetorically ¡§how could this happen?¡¨ 

More appropriately, why wasn¡¦t anyone asking if this 
woman (who giggled, ¡§We came, we saw, he died,¡¨ and 
bounced with glee on TV at the news of Qaddafi¡¦s death) 
was actually deranged to even ask such a daft question, 
with such an obvious answer? 

How could this not happen! 

Yet the Presstitutes not only repeated Madam Secretary¡¦s 
absurdities verbatim and without comment, as 
shown in the video link above, they laughed along and 
nodded in agreement. Thus, when Hillary states ¡§This 
question reflects how complicated and confounding the 
world could be,¡¨ she is given a free ride. Her statement 
is accepted, implicitly suggesting that if she¡¦s bewildered, 
then it must be bewildering to everyone. 

And, while it may have seemed ¡§complicated¡¨ to a 
simpleton and looked ¡§confounding¡¨ to someone utterly 
out of touch with the world, it was neither. It was as simple 
as one, two, three, and what it ¡§reflected¡¨ was American 
foreign policy: attack, invade, destroy and occupy. 

Thousands of deaths, mass destruction, bombed-out 
cities, wanton slaughter ¡V how could it NOT happen? 
America¡¦s decades of hegemonic foreign policy can, and 
has, engendered deep hatred and a thirst for revenge: 

Libya: 
¡§Death To America¡¨ 


by Dr. Paul Craig Roberts 

KINGSTON, NY, 14 September 2012 ¡X Try to imagine 
more deluded reporting than this by America¡¦s Presstitute 
¡§free press:¡¨ For 11 years Washington, in pursuit of 
its rightful hegemony, has been sending troops, bombers, 
jet fighters, helicopter gunships, drones and assassination 
teams into seven Muslim countries. Two of the Muslim 
countries, Iraq and Libya, and perhaps more depending 
on how you see it, have been overthrown by Washington 
and left in chaos. 

Washington¡¦s assaults on seven countries have blown 
up weddings, funerals, kids¡¦ soccer games, farm houses, 
hospitals, aid workers, schools, people walking along the 
streets, village elders. But the Muslims don¡¦t mind! They 
understand that the well-meaning Americans who love 
them and are committed to their human rights are bringing 
them democracy and women¡¦s rights. The million or 
more dead, maimed, and displaced Muslims are a low 
price to be paid for liberation by Washington. 

The Muslims understand that liberation has costs and 
are content with Washington¡¦s liberating violence until 
some idiot in California produced an anti-Islamic film. 
This film, and not Washington¡¦s predations, set the Muslim 
world alive with ¡§hate America.¡¨ 

On the symbolic date of September 11, the US ambassador 
to Libya and some other Washington representatives 
were assassinated in Libya. According to the 
Presstitute media, the assassins did not kill the Americans 
because Washington destroyed their country and 
left them in chaos. The assassins killed the Americans 
because of a trailer for an anti-Islamic film for which the 
murdered American representatives were not responsible. 

This is the way Washington works and thinks. It is not 
Washington¡¦s slaughter of Muslims and control over their 
societies and political life that produces blowback. It is 
independent film-makers in California! 

Deluded politicians in Washington, both Republicans 
and Democrats and, of course, the bought-and-paid-for 
¡§experts,¡¨ brought these forceful rejections of America 
upon us all. Washington has not only attacked Muslim 
countries on the basis of concocted lies ¡V weapons of 
mass destruction, al-Qaeda connections, brutal dictators 

¡V but also destroyed the secular governments that held 
the Islamists in check, and prevented their attacks on US 
representatives and institutions. 
In Egypt, long an American puppet state, the US Embassy 
was stormed and the US flag was torn apart. If 
only this were all, Washington could again purchase the 
Egyptian government, as it has done since Anwar Sadat¡¦s 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


assassination. But the ongoing news is that anti-
American protests are not only spreading across 
the Middle East but erupting throughout the 
world: Morocco, Sudan, Tunisia, Iraq, Yemen, 
Iran, Gaza, Bangladesh, Lebanon, London, and 
even into Israel. 

The Obama administration is blaming al-Qaeda, 
an Islamist group that the administration is 
currently supporting in its efforts to overthrow 
the secular Assad government in Syria and the 
group that the Obama administration used to 
overthrow the Libyan government, thus leaving 
a power vacuum in its place. Having destroyed 
the protection from Islamist attacks that secular 
Arab rulers provided Washington, Obama, in a 
show of force, has sent drones, aircraft carriers, 
Marines, and Tomahawk missile ships to Libya, 
raising the prospect that more schools and children¡¦s 
soccer games will be mistaken for jihadi 
encampments and blown up. 

Attempting to politicize the turmoil, Presidential candidate 
Mitt Romney declared that the US needed him in 
the White House and as president he would provide ¡§¡K 
the leadership that America respects and will keep us admired 
throughout the world.¡¨ 

What admiration is Romney talking about? Who are 
these admirers? In Egypt, Muslims marching to the beat 
of ¡§death to America,¡¨ have not been deterred by police 
after three days of protests. CBS News reports that ¡§police 
continue to fire tear gas in hopes it will deplete the 
strength of the demonstrators but they [the demonstrators] 
are proving relentless.¡¨ 

KINGS GOOD, DICTATORS BAD! 

Unlike the Washington-supported Saudi royal family that 
absorbs most of their nation¡¦s oil income, Qaddafi allocated 
the oil money to Libyans. In Cynthia McKinney¡¦s 
excellent book, ¡§The Illegal War On Libya,¡¨ Stephen 
Lendman writes that Qaddafi ¡§wanted Libyans to share in 
the country¡¦s oil wealth, a notion foreign to America and 
other Western societies. Under his 1999 Decision No. 111, 
all Libyans received free healthcare, education, electricity, 
water, training, rehabilitation, housing assistance, disability, 
old-age benefits, interest-free state loans, as well 
as generous subsidies to study abroad, buy a new car, help 
when they marry, practically free gasoline, and more.¡¨ 

Why did such a relatively wealthy and egalitarian country 
need to be ¡§liberated¡¨ by Washington and its NATO 
war criminal puppet state? 

What was achieved by overthrowing a government that 
provided for its people in better ways than do Western 
governments for the people they govern? 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
The US is the new Rome, and Europe, the UK, Canada, 
Japan, and Australia are its tributary dominions, along 
with the oil kingdoms. 

In his book, ¡§Rubicon,¡¨ Tom Holland describes what it 
is like to be a dominion of a powerful and ruthless military 
state: 

¡§Prior to the cataclysms of B.C. 146, there had been 
some confusion as to the precise definition of ¡¥freedom.¡¦ 
When the Romans claimed to be guaranteeing it, what 
did this mean? ¡K Roman and Greek interpretations of 
¡¥freedom¡¦ diverged. To the Romans, freedom meant an opportunity 
for the city states to follow rules laid down by 
Roman commissioners.¡¨ 

This is the ¡§freedom¡¨ that Washington imposes on 
the world. Washington is the ubermensch. The rest of the 
world is Washington¡¦s playground. Ruling as Rome did, 
Washington installs puppets and relies on their obeisance. 

In the end, empire destroys itself. Washington¡¦s hubris 
and arrogance is turning the world against America. 
Thanks to the Clintons, the Bushes, Cheney, Obama and 
the neoconservatives, America, instead of being loved or 
even respected, is hated with a rising passion. The widespread 
attacks on the imperial power¡¦s embassies are only 
the beginning. 

As Gerald Celente had forecast, The 1st Great War of 
the 21st Century has begun.¡¨ ¡E 


A BAD FLICK No, no. It was simply a crude offensive movie 
trailer¡¦ that sparked the Libyan embassy attack and the 
subsequent demonstrations that spread worldwide. Anybody 
seeing it as a consequence of the United States and 
NATO¡¦s brazen overthrow of a sovereign nation lacked a 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
NATO airstrike kills eight 
women and girls in Afghanistan 

Seven victims in hospital as villagers take 

bodies to provincial governor¡¦s office after 

women gathering firewood are hit 
Bodies of women Afghan officials say were 
killed in the airstrike are brought to a hospital 
in the Alingar district of Laghman 
province. 

Eight women and girls gathering firewood 
were killed by a NATO airstrike in 
Afghanistan early on Sunday, according to 
Afghan officials. 

The coalition says it believes only insurgents 
were hit. But villagers from Alingar 
district in the remote Laghman province, 
east of Kabul, brought the bodies 
to the governor¡¦s office in the provincial 
capital, said Sarhadi Zewak, a spokesman 
for the provincial government. ¡§They were 
shouting ¡¥death to America¡¦ They were 
condemning the attack,¡¨ Zewak said. 

Seven females were taken to area hospitals, 
some as young as 10, said provincial 
health director Latif Qayumi. 

B.A. in Russian and Eastern European Studies from Yale 
University and never earned a PhD in Bullshit, as has 
White House Press Secretary Jay Carney: 
Carney: Protests not 
directed at the United States 

The White House insisted Friday that anti-American 
protests roiling the Middle East are not directed 
at President Obama¡¦s policies, but at a film 
produced in the U.S. that Muslims find offensive. 

¡§This is not a case of protest directed at the 
United States writ large or at U.S. policy,¡¨ said 
White House press secretary Jay Carney. ¡§It is in 
response, not to United States policy, not to, obviously, 
the administration, not to the American 
people, but to a video, a film, that we have judged 
to be reprehensible, disgusting.¡¨ (The Washington 
Free Beacon, 14 September 2012) 

No, no, no, the consulate attack and worldwide protests 
were not in response to the endless stream of US atrocities 

¡V assassinations, predator drone strikes, torture camps or 
America¡¦s 11-year Afghan War that routinely produces 
headlines such as the one that ran shortly after Carney 
maintained it was the offending movie clip that brought 
on the violence: 
NATO forces at first said that about 45 

insurgents and no civilians were killed 
in the attack. But spokesman Jamie Graybeal 
said later that they took the allegations of civilian 
deaths seriously and were investigating them, 
though initial reports showed only insurgents 
were killed. 

Air strikes have been a sensitive issue between 
the Afghan people ¡V who say civilians often end 
up killed along with or instead of insurgents ¡V and 
NATO forces who maintain that they are a key 
tactic against insurgent leaders. (Guardian, 16 
September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: While it may have been a ¡§key tactic¡¨ it 
was a proven abject and murderous failure. To persist in 
employing it was manifest insanity. 

Yet the media corps would not only let the NATO 
spokesman get away with it unchallenged, but reported 
it in such a way as to make it look credible and sound 
authoritative. 

Eleven years of war, with its troop surges and bold 
promises of ¡§impressive progress¡¨ made by US and NATO 
generals ¡K ¡§impressive progress¡¨ in producing tens of 
thousands dead, hundreds of thousands wounded, and a 
country in ruins with nothing gained other than hatred 
and the populace¡¦s desire for revenge. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


ACCESSORIES TO THE CRIME The Presstitutes pressed 
on, reporting propaganda as fact. Just as they repeated the 
2001 White House line that America had been attacked 
on 9/11 because ¡§they hate our freedom and liberty,¡¨ so 
the 9/11 attack on the American consulate in Libya, eleven 
years to the day later, was described as being launched 
solely as a response to an inflammatory anti-Muslim trailer 
for a film produced by an obscure, amateur American filmmaker. 


Whatever came out of the White House (regardless of 
who was living in it) was taken at face value. And when 
high officials spoke, their words were given much more 
weight than if they had been spoken by someone who actually 
knew what he or she was talking about, and wasn¡¦t 
lying or spinning the truth: 

Susan Rice: Libya Protests 
¡¥Hijacked¡¦ by Extremists 

An Obama administration official said Sunday 
that the deadly attack on a U.S. consulate in Libya 
last week was the work of ¡§individual clusters of 
extremists¡¨ but began as a spontaneous protest. 

Libya¡¦s interim president, Mohammed Al-
Megarif, suggested on Sunday that al-Qaeda was 
behind the deadly assault on the U.S. consulate 
in Benghazi, which claimed the life of the U.S. 
ambassador. 

Ms. Rice said on ABC that the assault on the 

U.S. consulate in Benghazi Tuesday started with 
a ¡§small number of people¡¨ seeking to replicate 
a violent protest that had broken out in Cairo. 
¡§And then as that unfolded, it seems to have been 
hijacked, let us say, by some individual clusters 
of extremists who came with heavier weapons, 
weapons that ¡K in the wake of the revolution in 
Libya ¡K are quite common and accessible,¡¨ she 
said. ¡§And it then evolved from there.¡¨ 
Mr. Magrief said, in contrast, ¡§if you take into 
account the weapons used, like RPGs [rocketpropelled 
grenades] and other heavy weapons, it 
proves that it was pre-planned. It¡¦s a dirty act of 
revenge that has nothing to do with religion.¡¨ 

The consulate attack in Benghazi killed four 
Americans, including the U.S. ambassador to 
Libya, Christopher Stevens. A question that has 
lingered since is whether it started as a spontaneous 
protest or had been planned by extremists. 

Ms. Rice told ¡§Fox News Sunday¡¨ that the 
protests weren¡¦t an ¡§expression of hostility in 
the broadest sense to the U.S. or its policies,¡¨ but 
rather were a reaction to the video negatively depicting 
the Muslim faith. She said that it was diffi


cult to ¡§project the trajectory¡¨ of how the reaction 
of protesters around the region would develop. 

In appearances on several Sunday talk shows, 
Ms. Rice described Mr. Obama as ¡§incredibly 
calm, incredibly steady, and incredibly measured¡¨ 
through the crisis. She said his leadership 
has ¡§ensured that in Egypt, in Yemen, in Tunisia, 
in Libya, and many other parts of the world, that 
leaders have come out and made very plain that 
there¡¦s no excuse for this violence. 

She dismissed suggestions that the U.S. has 
become less effective or popular in the region. 
¡§We¡¦re not impotent,¡¨ she said in response to a 
question on ¡§This Week.¡¨ ¡§We¡¦re not even less 
popular.¡¨ (Bloomberg, 16 September 2012) 

In keeping with their motto: ¡§A Presstitute is a Presstitute 
is a Presstitute is a Presstitute,¡¨ the American media 
recorded and reported these self-serving, uninformed observations, 
declarations and conjectures without so much 
as a grimace, since, after all, they were spoken by a voice 
of authority, the US Ambassador to the UN. 

Trends Analysis: No, America was ¡§not even less popular.¡¨ 
That was why, around the globe, mobs were burning 
the American flag and screaming ¡§Death to America.¡¨ 

And no, according to Ambassador Rice, the protests 
weren¡¦t an ¡§expression of hostility in the broadest sense to 
the U.S. or its policies.¡¨ Could anyone take this nonsense 
seriously? In the ¡§broadest sense,¡¨ the narrowest sense 
and every other sense, the ¡§expressions of hostility¡¨ were 
precisely what they seemed to be and were understood as 
such by anyone with common sense. 

Implicit was the message ¡§there was nothing to worry 
about.¡¨ As soon as the offending movie is forgotten, the 
¡§expressions of hostility¡¨ will cease and the Arabs of the 
world will unite to sing the praises of all things American. 

And, not to forget, no matter what happened, how it 
happened, or why it happened, the situation was under 
control. As the distinguished UN Ambassador assured the 
American people, Mr. Obama (in between his rolled-upsleeve, 
non-stop campaign stops, golf games and rounds of 
basketball) was a Commander-in-Chief who was ¡§incredibly 
calm, incredibly steady, and incredibly measured¡¨ 
through the crisis ¡K especially since he was thousands 
of miles away from the consulate when it was bombarded. 

We¡¦re Better Than You Presidents, Secretaries 
of This and That, Ministers of Importance, Ambassadors 
of Wherever and all those of Higher Authority not 
only knew what was best for everyone, they lived in a dif-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


ferent world ¡K and even died in a different world. 
Not only were they more important in life, they were 

more important in death: 

Diplomats¡¦ Bodies Return to U.S. 

WASHINGTON ¡X As four flag-draped coffins 
bearing the bodies of the Americans killed in 
Libya arrived in the United States on Friday, new 
details emerged of Ambassador J. Christopher 
Stevens¡¦s final hours, alone, locked in a smoke-
filled room in a diplomatic mission under siege. 

In a solemn ceremony at Joint Base Andrews 
outside the capital, President Obama said the victims 
¡§laid down their lives for us all¡¨ and vowed 
to honor their memory by never retreating from 
the world. 

The arrival, broadcast live on news channels, 
proved an emotional culmination to an episode 
that has rocked Washington and American embassies 
around the world, even as details of those final 
fateful moments only now began to come clear. 

Mr. Obama called Mr. Stevens ¡§everything 
America could want in an ambassador.¡¨ 

Of the three others killed in the attack, he 
said Sean Smith, a Foreign Service officer and an 
Air Force veteran, had ¡§lived to serve.¡¨ Tyrone S. 
Woods, a former member of the Navy SEALs providing 
diplomatic security, was ¡§the consummate 
quiet professional.¡¨ And Glen A. Doherty, also a 
former member of the SEALs providing security, 
¡§never shied from adventure.¡¨ 

¡§Even in our grief we will be resolute, for we 
are Americans,¡¨ Mr. Obama said. ¡§And we hold 
our head high, knowing that because of these patriots, 
because of you, this country that we love 
will always shine as a light unto the world.¡¨ 

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, 
who looked stricken and seemed to be fighting her 
emotions, echoed those sentiments. ¡§We will wipe 
away our tears, stiffen our spines and face the future 
undaunted,¡¨ she said. All four worked for her, 
and she spoke slowly and with evident grief. She 
knew Mr. Stevens personally, she said, praising 
his ¡§goofy but contagious¡¨ smile, his ¡§California 
cool¡¨ and, mostly, his dedication and courage. 

¡§What a wonderful gift you gave us,¡¨ she told 
his family. ¡§Over his distinguished career in the 
Foreign Service, Chris won friends for the United 
States in far-flung places. He made those people¡¦s 
hopes his own. During the revolution in Libya, he 
risked his life to help protect the Libyan people 
from a tyrant, and he gave his life helping them 

build a better country.¡¨ 

Her voice grew stronger again as she called 

on leaders in the Middle East to fulfill their ob


ligations to protect diplomatic posts. ¡§The peo


ple of Egypt, Libya, Yemen and Tunisia did not 

trade the tyranny of a dictator for the tyranny 

of a mob,¡¨ she said. ¡§Reasonable people and re


sponsible leaders in these countries need to do 

everything they can to restore security and hold 

accountable those behind these violent acts.¡¨ 

(NYT, 14 September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: And so it was, when one of those higher 
authorities got killed, it ¡§rocked Washington and American 
embassies around the world and a made-for-TV ¡§solemn 
ceremony¡¨ was ¡§broadcast live on news channels.¡¨ 
The Ambassador was dead, long live the Ambassador! 

But when Pvt. Mike Jones gets blown to pieces by a 
roadside bomb, or Cpl. Tammy White gets a bullet in the 
head, or Sgt. Jose Gonzales gets murdered by the Afghan 
recruit he¡¦s supposed to be training, nothing is broadcast 
live and neither Washington nor its embassies around the 
world are rocked. When the coffins of the Average Joes 
and Janes come back, the media doesn¡¦t show them, and 
the President, Secretary of State and top military brass 
are AWOL. 

It was 24/7 non-stop propaganda. The brave, beloved, 
fluent-in-Arabic Ambassador Stevens didn¡¦t ¡§risk his life 
to help protect the Libyan people from a tyrant.¡¨ There 
are tyrants ruling throughout the world, many of whom 
America supports. In Libya, Stevens was looking after 
America¡¦s interests (i.e., doing its dirty work). The aim was 
to remove the uncooperative Qaddafi and install a puppet 
government that would allow America to better exploit 
Libya¡¦s precious high-quality sweet crude, a resource that 
the Chinese and others were freely accessing. 

Publisher¡¦s Note: Are the American people ever going to 
wake up and grow up? How many times are they going to 
buy in to the same lame, stale and demonstrably fraudulent 
storyline that the reason the United States invades, 
destroys and occupies sovereign countries that pose no 
threat to it is for the standard, one-size-fits-all, altruistic 
All-American reason: To bring freedom and democracy to 
people being oppressed by brutal dictators and tyrants? 

While American politicians keep pledging allegiance 
to the flag of the United States of America, their words 
and deeds run in direct contradiction to the words and 
deeds of the Founding Fathers whom they profess to honor, 
though only when convenient: 

¡§Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence (I conjure 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


you to believe me, fellow-citizens,) the jealousy of a free 
people ought to be constantly awake; since history and 
experience prove, that foreign influence is one of the most 
baneful foes of Republican Government. But that jealousy, 
to be useful, must be impartial; else it becomes the instrument 
of the very influence to be avoided, instead of 
a defence against it. Excessive partiality for one foreign 
nation, and excessive dislike of another, cause those whom 
they actuate to see danger only on one side, and serve to 
veil and even second the arts of influence on the other. 
Real patriots, who may resist the intrigues of the favorite, 
are liable to become suspected and odious; while its 
tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the 
people, to surrender their interests.¡¨ George Washington 

The counsel of their Founding Fathers had been consigned 
to the waste bin of history. Perhaps the American people 
would never wake up or grow up. Brainwashed since birth 
to believe ¡§my country right or wrong,¡¨ the country their 
Founding Fathers created had long since disappeared. 
¡§My country right or wrong¡¨ now meant obey your political 
leaders, follow their orders or suffer the consequences. 

Flip Flop In an instant, the White House party line 
about what happened in Libya and what motivated it was 
given a fresh new spin. Thus, the question raised but never 
asked was: Why would anyone believe the second spin 
since the first spin was sold as the official truth: 

White House: Libya was ¡¥terrorist attack¡¦ 

A White House spokesman today said it is apparent 
that last week¡¦s attack in Libya that killed a 

U.S. ambassador and three other Americans was 
an act of terrorism. 
¡§It is self-evident that what happened in Benghazi 
was a terrorist attack,¡¨ said White House 
spokesman Jay Carney.¡¨Our embassy was attacked 
violently and the result was four deaths of 
American officials.¡¨ 

Carney spoke as CNN and others, citing unnamed 
sources, reported that slain U.S. ambassador 
Chris Stevens had ¡§worried about what he 
called the never-ending security threats in Benghazi 
and mentioned his name was on an al Qaeda 
hit list.¡¨ 

As U.S. officials continue to investigate the 
deaths of Stevens and three other Americans, National 
Counterterrorism Center director Matthew 
Olsen told a Senate hearing: ¡§I would say, yes, 
they were killed in the course of a terrorist attack 
on our embassy.¡¨ 

U.S. officials initially attributed the death to 
protests over an anti-Islam film that got out of 
control. 
Aides to President Obama said the attack remains 

under investigation, including the state of security at 

the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya. 

President Obama ¡§is concerned that violent ac


tions were taken that led to the deaths of four Ameri


cans,¡¨ said White House spokesman Jay Carney. 

¡§He is absolutely concerned that we take the 
necessary measures to make sure that those who 
killed Americans are brought to justice,¡¨ Carney 
said. ¡§And he has been focused from the beginning 
on ensuring that adequate security reinforcements 
be brought to bear at embassies and consulates 
and diplomatic facilities where that¡¦s deemed 
necessary.¡¨(USA Today, 20 September 2012) 

What is the beleaguered, spin-battered public supposed 
to think? First the attack on the consulate was officially 
reported as a violent response to an offensive movie clip 
and should not be seen as ¡§an expression of hostility in the 
broadest sense to the U.S. or its policies.¡¨ Four days later 
the official new spin was that it was ¡§self-evident¡¨ that it¡¦s 
a ¡§terrorist attack.¡¨ 

The Big Questions In the days following the assault 
on the American consulate in Libya, the big questions 
being asked by the media, pundits and political opposition 
were: Was there a warning of an attack? If so, why 
didn¡¦t the ambassador have more protection? 

But a bigger question that neither the media nor the 
politicians were asking was: What the hell did you expect? 
The Americans and their NATO allies killed a lot of people 
and destroyed a country that was relatively prosperous and 
stable, despite pockets of resistance and growing unrest. 

However, that unrest became a full-blown civil war only 
when President Obama and his NATO partners intervened 
with massive air-strikes and provided armaments, intelligence 
and other military support to anti-Qaddafi forces. 

So maybe, just maybe, the Libyans who attacked the 
US consulate were not the ¡§militants¡¨ or ¡§extremists¡¨ vilified 
by politicians and the media. Possibly, just possibly, 
they were Qaddafi loyalists seeking revenge. 

WHAT IF? 

Suppose the tables were turned. Suppose an outside force 
(e.g., the BRIC coalition) attacked, invaded and destroyed 
America on the pretext of ridding the country of the Washington 
tyrants who had robbed the people of their Constitutional 
rights, enriched the already-rich one percent at 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


the expense of the 99 percent, and who had started wars 
under false pretenses, sacrificing the lives and limbs of 
its troops only to enrich the military industrial complex. 

Would those Americans who rose up to oppose the invaders 
be vilified as ¡§militants¡¨ or ¡§extremists¡¨? Or would 
they be considered resistance fighters, revered as patriots 
and martyrs for risking their lives to throw out the new 
government imposed upon them? 

No, as a befuddled Hillary Clinton claimed, the world 
was not ¡§complicated¡¨ and ¡§confounding.¡¨ In the case of 
Libya, it was simple. Anyone understanding the cause and 
effect of trend dynamics (where we are, how we got here 
and where we¡¦re going) would understand what happened, 
why it happened and where it was heading. 

It may have seemed ¡§confounding¡¨ to the Presstitutes, 
pundits, politicians and the tens of millions of indoctrinated 
Americans who believe in their President and 
¡§my country, right or wrong.¡¨ And it may have seemed 
¡§complicated¡¨ to the followers of Democratic and Republican 
cults that, with Hillary, would wonder, ¡§How could 
this happen in a country we helped liberate, in a city we 
helped save from destruction?¡¨ 

Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya ¡V the same propaganda is used 
to justify America¡¦s invasions or incursions and the same 
propaganda is used to demonize all those who refuse to be 
ruled by whoever it may be that the US demands should 
rule them. Those that fight back, those that do not want 
American-style freedom and democracy are militants, extremists, 
terrorists and, sophomorically, ¡§The Bad Guys.¡¨ 

AMATEUR HOUR 

In an October 3, 2011 Trend Alert, we forecast that President 
Obama would defeat any of the Republican front-runners 
competing for the nomination at that time, one of whom 
was Mitt Romney. This forecast was not based on perceived 
or substantive differences between the Republican challengers 
and the President, but rather on the superficiality 
of the entire spectacle. 

In short, we predicted Obama would be re-elected not 
because of his performance in office but because of his 
performance on stage. We wrote: 

The Presidential Reality Show 

¡§Reflecting back on the debates between Republican 
candidates, Celente says, ¡§This isn¡¦t politics 
as an exercise in Democracy in action, it¡¦s politics 
as show business for ugly people. 

Anyone who saw the September 12th debate 
hosted by CNN witnessed an early episode of The 

Presidential Reality Show. It was a star-spangled, 
made-for-TV-spectacle appropriating the lowest 
common denominator elements of the World 
Wrestling Federation, the Miss America Pageant 
and American Idol. 

¡§Given that this is what is passed off as political 
¡¥debate¡¦ in America, come Election Day, 
the American Idol winner (a.k.a. The President of 
the United States) will be the best performer. And 
Barack Obama has proven that he can out-perform 
and out-teleprompt them all ¡V he will tell the 
teleprompted truth the audience wants to hear. 

And on a stage where performance counts 
more than the heart, fans (a.k.a. the electorate) 
will vote for the Best Actor. That actor will be the 
man who commands the stage, Barack Obama.¡¨ 

TREND FORECAST UPDATE Exactly one year to the 
day since we made our forecast for an Obama victory, the 
primary component supporting it ¡V his superior stage performance 
skills ¡V dramatically deserted him. Going into 
the debate with a small, but statistically significant lead, 
Obama bombed in what was arguably the most amateurish 
debate performance ever televised. 

America is a nation in crisis, its economy in the grip 
of the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. 
Yet, with people losing their homes and their jobs, 
with the homeless population surging and nearly 50 million 
people on food stamps, with an intractable $16 trillion 
national debt, trillion-dollar budget deficits, trillions 
more in consumer and student debt, and with the military 
mired in losing wars as new wars loom, President Obama 
opened the first of three critical presidential debates with 
a calculated crowd pleaser: 

¡§There are a lot of points that I want to make tonight, but 
the most important one is that 20 years ago I became the 
luckiest man on earth because Michelle Obama agreed to 
marry me. And so I just want to wish, Sweetie, you happy 
anniversary¡K .¡¨ 

It was all part of the script. Obama¡¦s ¡§how much I love 
you Sweet Petunia after 20 years of marital bliss¡¨ may 
have warmed some women¡¦s hearts. But declaring it his 
¡§most important¡¨ point spoke subliminal volumes about 
the man, his insensitivity and his shallowness. 

Even if it was intended as no more than a lighthearted 
opening line, he and his wife were the point ¡V not the 67 
million Americans tuned into the debate, the 50 million 
on food stamps, the soldiers that had lost their lives, limbs 
and minds in futile, immoral wars. 

And from that point on he crumbled. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


WIRED AND OUT OF TOUCH 

On stage, the President rambled on, seemingly unable to 
speak a full sentence without the aid of a teleprompter, 
the ¡§mind-held device¡¨ he never leaves home without. 

The uncharacteristically un-presidential performance 
was universally panned: 

n Romney Dominates Glum President (Financial 
Times) 
n Mitt Romney comes out on top as Obama stumbles 
in first debate (The Guardian) 
n CNN poll: Romney beats Obama in first debate 
n Romney the aggressor in debate fixed on economy 
(The Jerusalem Post) 
n The 1st Round goes to Romney (Die Welt) 
n Mitt Romney breathes new life into Race (Neue 
Zuericher Zeitung) 
n Romney turns in strong debate performance¡¨ Japan 
Today 

The debate itself, such as it was, devolved into a face-off 
between an empty suit and a stuffed shirt. 

Romney, who up to the moment he took the stage, 
had been ridiculed world-wide for his serial gaffes, his 
stumbling, insincere delivery, his flip-flops and outright 
lies, suddenly turned the tables. Insofar as anything in 
The Presidential Reality Show could be called ¡§the high 
ground,¡¨ Romney took it ¡K and the audience yawned its 
way through the hour and a half of seesaw sniping. And 
although Romney was declared the hands-down winner, 
what he was the winner of is a question barely broached 
by the mainstream media. 

In the substance-free 90 minutes ¡V mainly devoted to 
tax policy and who said what, when, and what it would 
mean now ¡V it wasn¡¦t as though Romney scored points for 
trenchant analyses and proposed solutions. He simply won 
by default because Obama suffered a meltdown. 

IT AIN¡¦T OVER ¡¥TIL IT¡¦S OVER 

So uncharismatic and detached was Obama that some 
pundits even wondered if the President, wearied of the 
office, deep down, did not really care if he was re-elected. 

Was the President just off his game that night and his 
lackluster showing just a temporary setback, or did it 
mark a momentum shift that would ultimately determine 
the election? 

With two more debates to go, a month left to Election 
Day, and the elections squarely centered on personality 
and stage presence rather than on major policy differences, 
we cannot confidently forecast who will win the White 
House. That will depend upon Obama¡¦s ability and will to 
rise to the challenge. 

What we can confidently forecast is that ¡V absent an 
¡§October Surprise¡¨ in which some type of national emergency 
rallies the people around their President ¡V the candidate 
who performs the best in the TV debates will win 
the White House. 

THE NEXT FOUR YEARS Seventy million Americans 
and millions more around the world have witnessed the 
caliber of the two men contending for office. What can 
they possibly expect from either of the candidates? Yet, 
one of them will lead the nation. 

The question is, where to? 

Why should the public expect any more from either 
Romney or Obama than what they have already witnessed? 
The candidates¡¦ track records are matters of record. 
Obama pretends he would not do most of what Romney 
promises he will do. While Romney, if elected, will do 
what Obama has done for the last four years as President, 
but promised he wouldn¡¦t do. 

Yet, voters will wait for the next debate to see which 
candidate performs the best. And rather than rising in 
protest to demand a choice between a Greater of Two 
Goods, the American people will once again acquiesce 
and submit to the system and vote into office a Lesser of 
Two Evils. 

HIGH SCHOOL USA 

Who are these people telling us what¡¦s best, what¡¦s right 
and wrong, what we should do and how we should do it? 
What superhuman qualities do they possess that make 
them ¡§incredibly calm, incredibly steady, and incredibly 
measured¡¨ under the kind of pressure that would have lesser 
mortals peeing in their pants? 

They are our leaders. They are ¡§The Incredibles:¡¨ 
born of perfect parents, married to perfect wives, parents 
of special, amazing, gifted children and proud masters of 
wonder dogs. 

Yes, they are ¡§The Incredibles:¡¨ Incredibly full of 
themselves, narcissistic, pompous, arrogant boys and 
girls, most born on Easy Street and pampered from birth. 

WE KNEW THEM AS KIDS 
They ran for class president, or head of the student council. 
Some were Eagle Scouts. And now they are all grown 
up. But really, they have never grown up. In the deepest 
sense, they act and behave as if they are still in high school 
and still members of the same exclusive clique they hung 
around with as kids. You didn¡¦t like them, and they didn¡¦t 
like you. But you went your way and they went theirs. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
In spirit, they really never left high school because they 
never had to. Having never questioned the system, they 
never moved out of it. Their career paths were pre-paved 
for them. Still trapped in their teenage state of mind, they 
seldom contemplate the consequences of their decisions 
or take responsibility for their actions. In high school it 
didn¡¦t matter much. And, if they ever veered off their path 

¡V unless it was criminal ¡V their worst punishment was a 
reprimand or suspension. 
The big difference now is that with the high school 
clique in charge of the world¡¦s largest economy and most 
powerful military, its decisions and actions affect all of us. 

They continue telling us what¡¦s best for us, what¡¦s right 
and wrong, what to do and how to do it. But now, instead of 
telling them to f&#k off, entire nations listen to them, obey 
them, look up to and even fight and die at the behest of these 
high school kids who have grown older but not grown up. 

Why does it never occur to the public that the same 
wanker who was their high school class president is now 
President of the United States, Cabinet Secretary, Senator 
or Congressman? 

And the ¡§do-gooder¡¨ Eagle Scout that would rat you 
out to the teacher for cheating, has followed his pre-paved 
path through ROTC or West Point, punched his ticket up 
the military chain of command and is now the General 
who keeps losing thousands of men in losing wars. 

No, no, show respect! Having graduated and matriculated, 
they are no longer the overly ambitious, insincere, 
suck-ups and brown-nosers that you couldn¡¦t stand. They 
are ¡§lawmakers¡¨ and distinguished ¡§leaders.¡¨ 

What accounts for the behavior of the masters and of 
the enslaved, the leaders and their followers? 

I LIKE IKE 
Did Eisenhower¡¦s observation that ¡§Any man who wants 
to be president is either an egomaniac or crazy¡¨ apply 
to Mitt Romney and President Obama? The former has 
been campaigning for the office since 2007 and President 
Obama has been on the re-election campaign trail since 
April 2011. 

And what keeps people obediently following leaders, 
looking up to them and rarely questioning authority? Is 
the public also trapped in a teenage mindset? Are leaders 
surrogate parents; teachers who won¡¦t stand for disobedience? 
What would make adults follow and obey the same 
people they couldn¡¦t stand as kids? What would make 
them argue and fight among themselves over which ¡§egomaniac¡¨ 
or ¡§crazy¡¨ person would better represent their 
interests and care the most about them? 

Are they deluded by the trappings of office, the red 
carpets, the salutes, the pomp and pageantry, backed up 
by a lifetime of indoctrination? What prevents them from 
seeing through it all? 

Was it because of the way the system was sold to them 
by the Presstitutes? 

The Presstitutes Yes, the Presstitutes! Back in 
high school, these were the people who wrote the school 
newspaper and helped put together and publish the yearbook. 
And like the class presidents who followed their career 
path, they got degrees in journalism and communications 
and the most successful among them sucked their 
way up to become mouthpieces for the corporate networks 
and largest newspapers. 

In high school, the kids writing the school newspaper 
knew their place and never overstepped their bounds. 
While they played ¡§journalist,¡¨ promising their classmates 
to ask tough questions of the principal or gym teacher, 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


when it came down to it, they did their utmost to show 
respect and never questioned their subjects¡¦ authority. 

And now, as grownups, they continue to play the role and 
pretend they are hardcore journalists when in practice they 
are soft-core Presstitutes. When it comes to grilling a high-
level politician or top CEO, they respectfully pitch softball 
questions and accept the answers without challenge. 

And while it can be argued that the press has never 
been ¡§free,¡¨ what can¡¦t be argued is that never has it been 
as controlled as it is in 2012. 

The collusion between the press, politicians and CEOs 
ominously echoed the relationship that existed between the 
USSR and its apparatchiks. The USA has become the USSA. 

The excerpts from the following New York Times story 
reveal one of the most important and disturbing trends 
affecting 21st century Americans: 

Latest Word on the Trail? I Take It Back 

The quotations come back redacted, stripped of 
colorful metaphors, colloquial language and anything 
even mildly provocative. 

They are sent by e-mail from the Obama headquarters 
in Chicago to reporters who have interviewed 
campaign officials under one major condition: 
the press office has veto power over what 
statements can be quoted and attributed by name. 

Most reporters, desperate to pick the brains of 
the president¡¦s top strategists, grudgingly agree. 
After the interviews, they review their notes, 
check their tape recorders and send in the juiciest 
sound bites for review. 

The verdict from the campaign ¡X an operation 
that prides itself on staying consistently on script 

¡X is often no, Barack Obama does not approve this 
message. Quote approval is standard practice for 
the Obama campaign, used by many top strategists 
and almost all midlevel aides in Chicago and at the 
White House ¡K It is also commonplace throughout 
Washington and on the campaign trail. 
The Romney campaign insists that journalists 
interviewing any of Mitt Romney¡¦s five sons agree 
to use only quotations that are approved by the 
press office. And Romney advisers almost always 
require that reporters ask them for the green light 
on anything from a conversation that they would 
like to include in an article. 

From Capitol Hill to the Treasury Department, 
interviews granted only with quote approval have 
become the default position. Those officials who 
dare to speak out of school, but fearful of making 
the slightest off-message remark, shroud even the 
most innocuous and anodyne quotations in ano


nymity by insisting they be referred to as a ¡§top 
Democrat¡¨ or a ¡§Republican strategist.¡¨ 

Many journalists spoke about the editing only 
if granted anonymity, an irony that did not escape 
them. 

It was difficult to find a news outlet that had 
not agreed to quote approval, albeit reluctantly. 
Organizations like Bloomberg, The Washington 
Post, Vanity Fair, Reuters and The New York 
Times have all consented to interviews under 
such terms. (NYT, 15 July 2012) 

¡§Quote approval¡¨? That was a Presstitute euphemism for 
censorship! That¡¦s what it would be called in any other 
country. But back in the USSA, Presstitutes ¡§desperate to 
pick the brains of the president¡¦s top strategists, grudgingly 
agree¡¨ to ¡§conduct interviews under such terms.¡¨ 
¡§Grudgingly¡¨ or otherwise, writing only what they are 
permitted to write or repeat is not journalism, it¡¦s submission 
to authority, it¡¦s cowardice. In fact, so cowardly have 
the Presstitutes become that they insist upon ¡§anonymity¡¨ 
even when speaking to their Presstitute peers! 

American journalists had admittedly abandoned the 
principles of their profession. It wasn¡¦t about doing what 
was morally right, it was self-preservation. Suck up, bow 
down, show no self respect, be a good girl or boy, just write 
what you are told and you¡¦ll keep your job ¡V until you get 
downsized. 

But there was a major difference between journalism 
USSA and Journalism USSR. If the American Presstitutes 
did not comply they¡¦d lose their jobs; in the USSR, they¡¦d 
lose their heads. 

RIGHT ON THE MONEY 

We said they would do it before the election, and they did 
it! The Americans called it quantitative easing (QE3), the 
Europeans called it a euro rescue fund and bond intervention 
(unlimited government bonds purchased from troubled 
eurozone nations) while the Chinese and Japanese called it 
¡§stimulus.¡¨ Desperate to prop up their failing and flagging 
economies, the nations¡¦ digital presses began pumping out 
trillions of dollars, euros, yuan and yen that were not worth 
the paper they were not printed on. 

Month after month, the data ¡V imports, exports, job 
numbers, industrial production, real estate, retail sales ¡V 
added up to recession, stagnation, depression. The world 
over, it was a variation on the same theme. In countries 
that had until recently been booming there was, at best, 
minimal growth. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Although a global economy had been in place for decades, 
individual nations perpetuated an illusion of sovereignty 
and independence. But now, in September 2012, 
that illusion has been shattered. It was all inextricably 
connected, and the common denominator by any name 
(dollar, euro, yuan, real, rupee) was money, with the central 
banks working in concert to make sure the money 
kept flowing. 

In August, the overriding economic concern had been 
how to solve the European debt crisis ¡V a crisis that euro 
leaders had initially denied would occur and then, over 
the past two years, repeatedly claimed to have resolved. 
Now that crisis threatened the euro, the cohesiveness of 
the eurozone and by extension, not only the global economy 
but geopolitics. 

Indeed, it was all connected. As we have frequently emphasized, 
when Europeans and Americans cut consumer 
spending, the Chinese and other low-wage manufacturing 
nations cut production. And when they cut production, 
resource-rich countries such as Australia, Brazil, Bolivia, 
Chile, etc., export less. Thus it was about more than just 
money. Anything done to forestall and/or repair the economic 
crises was to the advantage of the incumbent political 
parties: 

Draghi helps out Obama campaign 

Barack Obama¡¦s chances of re-election as US 
president rose on Thursday and the words that did 
it were not his but Mario Draghi¡¦s. 

Long before Mr Obama stood up to accept the 
Democratic nomination in Charlotte, North Carolina, 
the head of the European Central Bank had 
sketched out a new plan to buy the bonds of troubled 
eurozone countries. 

That will not move the polls; it will not move a 
single vote. But Mr Draghi has lowered the gravest 
of risks to Mr Obama: a pre-election meltdown 
in the eurozone that would have blown up banks, 
pulverised Wall Street, and routed a fragile US 
economy back into recession. 

If that happened, it would not be Mr Obama¡¦s 
fault, but he would get the blame. Just as the failure 
of Lehman Brothers doomed his rival John 
McCain in 2008, a eurozone implosion would 
create economic odds too great for Mr Obama to 
surmount. 

The eurozone has barely been mentioned in 
the US election campaign ¡V swing voters in Ohio 
care little for Spanish bond yields ¡V but economic 
advisers to Mr Obama and his Republican rival 
Mitt Romney know its wild card potential. 

Behind the scenes, Mr Obama¡¦s economic team 

has spent much of the past year fretting about the 
eurozone, and working every diplomatic angle to 
push the Europeans towards a credible solution. 

The ECB¡¦s latest action is not the whole solution, 
but it is a forward step, and one that the central 
bank hesitated over before taking. Markets 
rallied strongly when it did. 

Dangers remain, not least from Greece, the 
world¡¦s slipperiest economic banana skin. But 
if Mr Obama does win in November, he should 
thank not just his own elegant words, but the less-
than-soaring rhetoric of an Italian central banker. 
(FT, 6 September 2012) 

New World Order In what was deemed one of 

the most important rulings in its 61-year history. Ger


many¡¦s highest court approved the nation¡¦s participation 

in a £á700 billion European Stability Mechanism (ESM) 

bailout scheme. The court ruling sacrificed sovereignty to 

the greater goal of saving the eurozone, in effect transfer


ring decision-making powers to Brussels, in order to form 

a more perfect European Union. 
Beyond the legal jargon explaining why the court came 

to its decision, in plain English, what it did was put con


trol of the entire eurozone into the hands of a handful of 

money men and power brokers: 

Europe must become 
¡¥federation of states¡¦, Barroso says 


The president of the European Commission called 
for the EU to be turned into a ¡§federation of nation 
states¡¨ in a sweeping demand for countries to 
surrender more sovereignty and move towards full 
integration. 

In a speech to the European Parliament, the 
head of the bloc¡¦s executive, President Jose Manuel 
Barroso, said ¡§Let¡¦s not be afraid of the words: 
We will need to move towards a federation of nation 
states. This is our political horizon. This is 
what must guide our work in the years to come,¡¨ 
he said in his annual ¡§state of the union¡¨ address. 

¡§A democratic federation of nation states that 
can tackle our common problems, through the 
sharing of sovereignty in a way that each country 
and its citizens are better equipped to control 
their own destiny.¡¨ 

While there may be enthusiasm in some European 
capitals for such a move, it is a vision that 
is likely to rankle in countries such as Britain, 
where there is strong opposition to the idea of 
more powers being devolved to Brussels. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Barroso said that in an age of 
globalisation, the EU would struggle 
to compete unless it was prepared 
to pool its sovereignty and 
act as one. 

¡§I said a federation of nation 
states because in these turbulent 
times, we should not leave the defence 
of the nation just to the nationalists 
and populists,¡¨ he said. 
¡§I believe in a Europe where people 
are proud of their nations but 
also proud to be European.¡¨ 

¡§Many will say that this is too 
ambitious, that it is not realistic,¡¨ 
he said. ¡§But let me ask you this 

-is it realistic to go on like we 
have been doing? Is it realistic to 
see more than 50 percent of young 
people without jobs in some of our 
member states? 
¡§The realistic way forward is the way that 
makes us stronger and more united. Realism is to 
put our ambition at the level of our challenges.¡¨ 
(The Telegraph, 12 September 2012) 

It was a New World Order: A Banking Order. The banks 
were giving the orders. This was no conspiracy theory. 
Barroso¡¦s call for the abrogation of national sovereignty 
and the consolidation of power in the hands of the financial 
few was being openly championed. 

And who was the champion? Jose Manuel Barroso, 
the former Prime Minister of Portugal, one of the eurozone¡¦s 
most insolvent and economically troubled 
countries, was now telling the rest of Europe what was 
good for it. Whether coming from Barroso or from the 
¡§troika¡¨ (EC, ECU and IMF) with their track records 
of failure, there is no reason to believe that anything 
they suggested would work, and every reason to believe 
it wouldn¡¦t. 

Trend Forecast: What the centralization of political and 
financial power would achieve, however, was to further 
enrich and empower the bankers and further impoverish 
the already-disempowered public. With corruption and 
criminality centralized, instead of politicians and banks 
in sovereign countries competing with each other for who 
could steal the most, a single power base would coordinate 
the crimes. 

In effect, what Barosso envisaged, and what would become 
reality if the current trends continue, was a Washington, 
DC, of Europe. 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Cheap Money Syndrome Complementing the 
quantitative easing, stimulus and bond-buying schemes 
were central bank moves to further lower and/or keep 
the historically low interest rates in place for years to 
come. This cheap money policy led to accusations that 
countries in economic decline were devaluing their currencies 
in order to boost exports and in doing so, igniting 
a currency war: 

Brazil¡¦s Finance Chief Attacks US Over QE3 

Guido Mantega, Brazil¡¦s finance minister, has 
warned that the U.S. Federal Reserve¡¦s ¡§protectionist¡¨ 
move to roll out more quantitative easing 
will reignite the currency wars with potentially 
drastic consequences for the rest of the world. 

¡§It has to be understood that there are consequences,¡¨ 
Mr. Mantega told the Financial Times 
in an interview on Thursday. 

The Fed¡¦s QE3 program would ¡§only have a 
marginal benefit [in the U.S.] as there is already 
no lack of liquidity .. . and that liquidity is not going 
into production.¡¨ 

He said it was instead depressing the dollar 
and aimed at boosting U.S. exports. 

He cited Japan¡¦s decision this week to expand 
its own QE program, coming on the heels of the 
Fed¡¦s decision to launch further QE last week, as 
evidence of growing global tensions. ¡§That¡¦s a 
currency war,¡¨ he said. 

But continued QE policies would hurt trade 
throughout the world, from emerging economies 
to developed world exporters such as Germany 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


and Japan. 

¡§Japanese companies 
were complaining about 
their strong exchange rate. 
If a weaker dollar leads to 
rising trade competition, 
then that will also force 
Brazil to adopt measures 
to stop the real strengthening,¡¨ 
Mr. Mantega said. 
(FT, 21 September 2012) 

Robbing Hoods In 
the United States particularly, 
the cheap-money, low-interest-
rate policy hit the general 
public, long conditioned to 
build their savings accounts, 
the hardest. With Fed interest 
rates now at or near zero, and 
scheduled to remain there for 
three more years, the old adage, 
¡§A penny saved is a penny 
earned,¡¨ had become, ¡§A penny 
saved is a penny devalued.¡¨ 

Once upon a time, in the 
old pre-QE days, responsible 
people would put money away 
for a rainy day or to support 
them through their retirement 
years. The quaint notion was 
that rather than spend it in on 
consumer products or invest 

in risky equities, people would save money in a bank and 
in return they would earn interest. It had long been the 
American Way ¡V but it no longer was. 

People with extra earnings had two choices: invest 
in equity markets and take a risk, or put it in the bank 
and watch their savings devalue as the inflation rate rose. 
So egregious had the saving scam become (we take your 
money and give you back next to nothing) that bankers, 
unable to pitch it with a straight face, hired comedians: 

Theoretically, only those Americans with the means to 
deposit $5 million dollars in a bank would be able to earn 
a modest American median income of $50,054 at 1.00% 
interest, a sum that would hardly allow them to live the 
lifestyle to which they were accustomed. 

But given an annual inflation rate of 9 percent ¡V using 
the 1980 official methodology for measuring the CPI ¡V at 
the end of the year, the $5 million in the bank had declined 
in value by $450,000. Such a deal! Put your money 

in Capital One ¡V and watch it lose eight percent in a year! 

Needless to say, no one with $5 million to spare would 
put it in a bank at 1.00 percent. But for millions of Americans, 
the insignificant interest rate return has taken away 
a time-honored savings safety net. 

Is Everybody Happy? By virtually all measures, 
America¡¦s pride ¡V the once-populous and prosperous 
middle class ¡V was being hollowed out. 

Yet, during this political season, the president, his 
challenger and the politicians running for the Senate and 
the House are either afraid to tell the American people 
how serious the conditions are (perhaps fearing they will 
blame the messenger) or they still cannot see it themselves. 


But, barely a day goes by without some socio-economic 
and geopolitical story (in the headlines or boondocked to 
the back pages) that captures a telling aspect of the systemic 
decline and disintegration of Empire America: 

n US incomes fall to 1989 levels. How did it happen? 

Christian Science Monitor, 12 September 2012) 

n Report: Median Income Worse Now Than During 

Great Recession (CBSDC, 18 September 2012) 

n Stagnant Incomes Signal Restraint in Spending by 

U.S. Consumers (Bloomberg, 10 September 2012) 
n Why Fewer Americans Are Starting New Businesses 
(CNBC, 31 July 2012) 
n Dollar is Near 4-Month Low Against Euro After Fed 
Expands Easing (Bloomberg, 14 September 2012) 
n Jobless Claims Rose More Than Forecast Last Week 
(Bloomberg, 13 September, 2012) 
n U.S. Debt Now $136,260 Per Household ¡V Up 50 % 
Under Obama (CBS News, 4 September 2012,) 
n Stakes rise and US is warned of double dip (FT, 23 
August 2012) 
n Majority of new jobs pay lower wages, study finds 
(New York Times, 4 September 2012 
n August Job Report Disappoints (CBS, 7 September 
2012) 
n Trading Caps and Gowns for Mops (Wall Street 
Journal, 22 August 2012) 
n US Census Figures Show More Than One in Five 
Children are Living in Poverty (The Guardian, 12 
September 2012) 
n Retirees¡¦ New Pastime: Cutting Costs in all Sorts of 
Ways (USA Today, 9 September 2012) 
n Hidden Unemployed: Too Discouraged to Count 
(CNBC, 23 September 2012) 
n Goldman Sachs Analysts Say Bank Slowdown Isn¡¦t 
Temporary (Bloomberg, 10 September 2012) 
The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


n Trade Gap in U.S. Widened to $42 Billion as Exports 
Fell (Bloomberg, 11 September 2012) 
n Young U.S. Adults Flock to Parents¡¦ Homes Amid 
Economy (Bloomberg, 9 September 2012) 
n US Slips Down in the Ranks of Global Competitiveness 
(CNBC, 9 September 2012) 
n Food-Stamp Use Climbs to Record (Businessweek, 5 
September 2012) 
n Low-Wage Work Force Grows 30% as the Number of 
Jobs Shrinks (Suntimes, 25 September 2012) 
n U.S. Economy Expanded Less Than Forecast in 
Second Quarter (Bloomberg, 26 September 2012) 
n Orders for U.S. Goods Point to Capital Investment 
Slowdown (Bloomberg, 26 September 2012) 


Throughout the world, variations on the same theme are 
revealed in the headlines and the data: 

China Stocks Breach Key Level, 
More Losses Seen 


China¡¦s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index 
broke below a key support level on Wednesday, 
touching its lowest point in more than three and a 
half years, and market watchers told CNBC mainland 
stocks are set to suffer further losses in the 
coming weeks. 

 ¡§Chinese stocks have been in a steady downtrend 
since May this year, as retail investors 

¡X which account for around 80 percent of the 
turnover at the country¡¦s two stock exchanges 
in Shanghai and Shenzhen ¡X dump equities in 
search of less volatile alternatives. Since the start 
of the year, the Shanghai Composite has fallen 9 
percent. 
Recent numbers out of China have shown that 
the slowdown in the world¡¦s second largest economy 
is deeper than initially thought. Factory activity 
in August, for example, contracted for the 10th 
month in a row. 

The government has announced both monetary 
and fiscal stimulus for the flagging economy 
this year, but unlike the foreign investment community, 
domestic investors have failed to get excited 
by these announcements, Chan said. 

¡§While western watchers are looking for more 
stimulus, the people closer to the market are looking 
at the quality of the stimulus,¡¨ he said. 

Stimulus measures over the past, including the 
$150 billion-plus in infrastructure spending and incentives 
for exporters, have failed to drive a sustainable 
turnaround in the market. While this did lead 
to a temporary rally in the first week of September, it 

soon fizzled out. (CNBC, 26 September 2012) 

Honeymoon Over as Markets 
Brace for Volatile Times 


The message from this week¡¦s sell off in global 
stock markets could not be clearer: The summer 
time rally, fueled by optimism over central bank 
stimulus measures, is now over and it¡¦s time to 
brace for a period of renewed volatility and uncertainty, 
analysts say. 

The S&P 500 index on Tuesday suffered its 
worst day in three months, while Asian stocks 
slumped on Wednesday, with Japan¡¦s benchmark 
Nikkei stock index down 1.7 percent in early 
trade. The sharp sell-off and renewed concerns 
about Spain¡¦s economy are likely to set the tone 
for European markets on Wednesday. 

A retreat in global markets, which have seen 
stellar gains over the last three months, reflects a 
shift in sentiment among investors, analysts say. 
They add that now the world¡¦s major central banks 
have unveiled steps to help their economies, focus 
has returned to the economic outlook, which remains 
weak in much of the world. 

¡§The honeymoon period for markets is over. 
There is a realization that central banks have laid 
their cards on the table now and not much more 
can be done to help growth,¡¨ said Justin Harper, 
market strategist at IG Markets in Singapore. 

The European Central Bank (ECB) cheered 
markets at the start of the month when it outlined 
how it would help bring an end to the euro zone 
debt crisis with a plan to buy the bonds of those 
euro zone countries facing high borrowing costs. 

Markets got another boost two weeks ago when 
the Federal Reserve unveiled an aggressive asset-
buying plan to boost the U.S. economy and revive 
employment growth, while the Bank of Japan surprised 
markets last week when it delivered its own 
monetary easing measures. 

Protests in Spain on Tuesday against unpopular 
austerity measures, meanwhile, act as a reminder 
that the euro zone¡¦s debt crisis is far from 
over. (CNBC, 22 September 2012) 

Storm Clouds Darken 

Over Global Economy 

Central banks¡¦ recent aggressive policy actions 
will not be enough to spur economic growth in 
the remainder of 2012 and in 2013, economists 
say, with the euro zone debt crisis expected to 
rumble on, growth in Asia seen slowing further, 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


and a recovery in the United States expected to be 
disappointing. 

Euro zone business activity dropped in September 
to its lowest since January 2010, data released 
on Thursday showed. 

In China, activity for mainland factories 
inched a bit higher in September from August 
but still stretched into an 11th straight month of 
contraction. 

The numbers come just two weeks after the European 
Central Bank (ECB) announced it would 
buy unlimited amounts of short-term bonds in an 
attempt to restore confidence and boost growth. 

Since then, the Federal Reserve has also announced 
a new round of bond buying in an attempt 
to tackle slow growth in the economy. 

The Bank of Japan on Wednesday became the 
latest central bank to boost its bond buying program, 
hoping the purchases would help to keep 
blunt the appreciation of the yen in order to boost 
the country¡¦s exports. 

While Thursday¡¦s PMI figures might not yet 
reflect the impact of the Fed and Bank of Japan¡¦s 
moves, many economists feel the measures will 
prove to be too little, too late. 

¡§Even with policy action, economic growth in 
major countries is likely to remain disappointing 
in 2013,¡¨ Citigroup analysts said in a note to 
clients. 

The bank kept its 2012 global growth forecast 
steady at 2.5 percent, but cut its 2013 forecast to 

2.6 percent from 2.8 percent forecast last month. 
¡§Within that, we have cut our 2013 China 
growth forecast to 7.6 percent from 8.0 percent, 
with our 2012 forecast staying at 7.9 percent. 

In all, over the last six months, we have cut our 
2012 China growth forecast by 0.5 percent and cut 
our 2013 forecast by 1.0 percent. 

This is among the sharpest pace of downgrades 
seen in recent years,¡¨ Citigroup said. 

The bank also sharply cut its Japan growth 
forecasts. 

¡§Today¡¦s figures confirm we are in a serious 
dip. It is hard to see how we will get out of this 
again,¡¨ Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING 
told CNBC.com. 

¡§In Europe we see the same old story. Southern 
Europe is in a deep recession and Germany is 
keeping the euro zone afloat,¡¨ he said. 

Meanwhile China faces problems in commercial 
property with signs of a bubble, Brzeski said, 
while the United States ¡§sometimes looks like a 

southern European country¡¨ that needs structural 
reforms, has an ailing housing market and ¡V by 

U.S. standards ¡V high unemployment. 
ING expects the global economy to expand by 
2.4 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2013, but 
does not expect the euro zone to return to growth 
until 2014. 
Double Trouble in Europe 

The euro zone faces additional complications if it 
continues to see the divergent economic growth 
rates it is currently witnessing. 

Thursday¡¦s PMI readings were better than expected 
for Germany, but below forecast for France. 

Such a divergence makes policymaking even 
harder in a region already troubled by an inability 
to set different interest rates for different 
economies. 

While the likelihood of a Greek exit from the 
euro zone will continue to add to uncertainty, 
Spain and Italy¡¦s finances will also remain a cause 
for concern, fueling growth fears. 

Meanwhile Spain and Italy will likely tap the 
ECB¡¦s ¡§Outright Monetary Transaction¡¨ program, 
the new bond buying scheme announced earlier 
this month, Citigroup said, but the ultimate outcome 
in those countries was difficult to predict. 

¡§It is unclear how the near-term vulnerabilities 
of Italy and Spain will be resolved. (CNBC, 20 
September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: The above bullet pointed headlines and 
wire service stories constitute but a brief sampling from 
the ongoing onslaught of negative economic and geopolitical 
news. The markets were in a downturn. The vaunted 
stimulus/money-pumping schemes were running out of 
steam, and the people were rioting. 

Taken individually, such headlines are troubling. 
When taken together, the casual reader, or even a reader 
with a fixed ideology, or a Pollyanna, should be able to 
see what those headlines add up to: No Recovery, More 
Decline, and Potential Disaster. 

Trendpost: What are the investment options in a ¡§No 
Recovery, More Decline, Potential Disaster¡¨ global 
economy? 

Precious Metals: Since we are not registered financial 
advisors, and thus not permitted to provide investment 
advice, speaking only for ourselves, we maintain our decades-
long strategy to buy gold and silver. With the world 
money presses whirring away, we see no profit potential in 
holding nations¡¦ ¡§print on demand¡¨ fiat currencies, especially 
when issued by nations that can¡¦t pay their bills and 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


that keep piling on more debt. 

We also want to emphasis that while we continue to 
forecast Gold $2000-plus, there is a real possibility for 
market manipulation and/or government intervention. 
Considering that rising gold prices are anathema to fiat 
currency based central banks, it would be in their interest 
to dramatically drive the price down. 

Nevertheless, as we have also long maintained, for us, 
gold is our security for our golden years. In an uncertain 
world, where so-called legacy stocks and sound retirement 
funds disappear overnight, gold and silver are tangible assets 
that, even should they lose market value, will always 
have value. 

Again, understanding that we do not provide financial 
advice, if you believe in gold and silver, one strategy to 
consider is buying what you can afford each month. Thus, 
over time, despite dramatic fluctuations, the price could 
be favorably averaged out. 

Real Estate: We are on record with our forecast that 
various sectors have bottomed out. Despite the near certainty 
for continuing financial crises, we believe there are 
investment opportunities in real estate. With the ability to 
borrow at 3.5 percent for commercial properties that have 
income producing potential, and the probability of higher 
inflation (meaning paying loans back with devalued money) 
we have personally invested in carefully selected commercial 
properties. 

One More Time No Recovery, More Decline, and 
Potential Disaster is what we have been warning about 
since the onset of the Panic of ¡¦08. We predicted that history 
would repeat itself, and it is now doing so. 

First there was the Panic of ¡¥08, then the Great Recession/
Depression, followed by an intensifying currency 
war. And, now the trade wars are beginning to heat up. 
In the US, both presidential and congressional candidates 
are ratcheting up the anti-China rhetoric, blaming America¡¦s 
economic troubles on unfair Chinese trade practices 
and currency manipulation: 

News Analysis: Why China becomes 
political card in U.S. elections 

WASHINGTON ¡X As U.S. Republican presiden


tial candidate Mitt Romney and President Barack 

Obama are stepping up attacks in their election 

campaigns against each other involving China, 

the topic of China is quickly becoming a political 

card in this year¡¦s presidential elections. 

Experts say the reason is that it is relatively 

risk-free. 

However, these attacks are worrying many, as 

they could lead to trade wars and further damage 
the U.S. economy if the candidates were forced to 
honor them next year when they were voted into 
office. 

The first draw of this round of attacks was made 
by Romney. The former Massachusetts governor 
told supporters at a Virginia campaign event last 
week that it was China¡¦s ¡§undervalued¡¨ currency 

¡X the Chinese yuan ¡X that forced U.S. manufacturers 
out of their jobs. His campaign, meanwhile, 
released an ad blaming Obama for being ¡§soft¡¨ 
with China¡¦s ¡§cheating,¡¨ turning a blind eye to the 
fact that the Chinese currency has so far appreciated 
more than 30 percent against the U.S. dollar 
since Beijing began to reform its exchange rate 
regime in 2005. 
The Obama campaign responded this week by 
criticizing Romney for sending American jobs to 
China by investing in Chinese companies during 
his tenure at Bain Capital, a private equity firm 
Romney ran before entering politics. 

The Obama administration also brought up a 
major trade case at the World Trade Organization 
(WTO) against China¡¦s subsidies to its automobile 
industry on the same day as Obama visited the 
industry-heavy swing-state of Ohio. The administration 
has brought up two major complaints at 
the WTO against China in the past two months, 
both during the same week as Obama visited the 
crucial state. 

¡§These ¡K subsidies,¡¨ claimed Obama at a 
campaign rally Monday in Cincinnati, Ohio, ¡§directly 
harm working men and women on the assembly 
lines in Ohio and Michigan and across the 
Midwest.¡¨ 

The president also used the event to accuse 
Romney, saying Romney¡¦s experience has been 
¡§owning companies that were called ¡¥pioneers¡¦ in 
the business of outsourcing jobs to countries like 
China.¡¨ 

Newspapers such as The Washington Post and 
The Wall Street Journal ran editorials in the past 
week, calling for a stop in China-bashing, while 
cautioning protectionism tendencies exhibited in 
both campaigns. 

The business community also has reason to 
worry. The Conservative policy group the Club 
for Growth, which champions pro-business, free-
market views, issued a statement Monday, accusing 
both candidates of threatening to ¡§enact 
anti-growth policies against China that will raise 
prices, incite a trade war, and do real damage to 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


our country¡¦s economic recovery. (Xinhua, 19 

September 2012) 

The 1st Great War of the 21st Century 

Even though the media covered the intensifying China 
bashing and the possibility of a trade war, no one was recognizing 
the situation as an instance of history repeating 
itself. The times had changed and the countries involved 
were different, but the underlying circumstances were 
nearly identical. 

Just as the Crash of ¡¦29 was followed 
by the Great Depression, 
then currency wars and trade wars 
that led to World War II, so too, 
the Panic of ¡¦08, followed by the 
Great Recession currency wars, 
and trade wars will lead to The 1st 
Great War of the 21st Century, that 
we have been forecasting. 

In fact, the world was already at war: 

n How many more riots and 

protests would have to erupt in 

the Iraq War that has turned into civil war before the 
experts and authorities call them endless wars? 
n How many more bases must the United States open 
up in Africa and how widely must it spread its military 
presence throughout the Asian/Pacific theater before 
it becomes clear that a Chinese/Anglo conflict is inevitable? 
n How many more conflicts must erupt between China 
and Japan, Philippines, South Korea and Vietnam over 
disputed islands and resource-rich territorial waters 

before it is called a regional war? 
n How long would it be before simmering 
political and social unrest 
in Hungary, Belarus, Romania, 
Bulgaria, Georgia, and the Caucuses 
boil over into civil war and/ 
or regional warfare? 
n How many more threats must Israel 
make against Iran before one 
attacks the other and the major 
powers join in the conflagration? 

As with the economic headlines 
cited above, while all of these geo-

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
India, Spain, Portugal, Greece, 

Egypt, Tunisia, South Africa 

and other depression-ravaged 

countries before the experts and 

authorities would call it class 

warfare? 

n How many more civil wars had 

political hotspots are serious and 

menacing in their own right, once 

again the experts and authorities 

do not take into consideration the 

full extent of their explosive poten


tial. Moreover, it is only when all 

are added up and viewed as a whole, 

to break out in Syria, Libya, Yemen, 
Bahrain and other Middle East/North African/ 
African countries before the experts and authorities 
would call it regional war? 
n How many more people had to die in the decade-
long Afghan War (that has bled into Pakistan) and in 

that what the future holds can even 
be contemplated: The 1st Great War of the 21st Century. 

Whether or not it is already too late to do anything to 
forestall it is impossible say with certainty. But what is 
certain is that if that global prospect is not recognized and 
acknowledged, it will very soon be too late. ¡E 


PUT YOUR MONEY WHERE YOUR MIND ISR 
I would like to subscribe to The Trends Journal. Each year I will receive four (4) 
issues plus intermittent Trend Alerts and access to exclusive Trends in The News 
videos. 

Online Edition: q 1 year $99 q 2 years $175 q 3 years $225 
Magazine & Online Edition: q 1 year $185 q 2 years $249 q 3 years $349 

Outside the US, please add $25 per year (for magazine edition subscription only) 

To renew online, go to www.trendsresearch.com and click ¡§Trends Journal¡¨ 
To renew by mail, send payment to: 

The Trends Research Institute 

P.O. Box 3476, Kingston, NY 12402 
845 331-3500 
NAME 

TITLE 

COMPANY 

STREET ADDRESS 

CITY STATE ZIP 

E-MAIL PHONE 


