
The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Israeli Sharpens Call for 
United States to Set Iran Trigger 


WASHINGTON ¡X Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 
of Israel inserted himself into the most 
contentious foreign policy issue of the American 
presidential campaign on Tuesday, criticizing the 
Obama administration for refusing to set clear 
¡§red lines¡¨ on Iran¡¦s nuclear progress that would 
prompt the United States 

its coverage in dispassionate journalese: The Israeli Prime 
Minister ¡§inserted himself¡¨ into the ¡§American presidential 
campaign.¡¨ 

No outrage, no indignation, that the leader of Israel was 
¡§willing to use the pressure of the presidential election to 
try to force Mr. Obama to commit to attack Iran under 
certain conditions.¡¨ Had it been any other allied leader 
trying to make ¡§maximum use of his political leverage¡¨ 

to dragoon America into yet 

to undertake a military another war, it would have 
strike. As a result, he said, ¡§Mr. prime minister, you want a crude, set off a political and media 
the administration has no 
¡§moral right¡¨ to restrain 
Israel from taking military 
rude, unprecedented, reckless, and risky 
intervention in the US elections. ¡K Who are you 
firestorm. Had America renounced 
its sovereignty? Was 
Israel calling the shots, or the 
action of its own. 
Mr. Netanyahu¡¦s unusually 
harsh public comtrying 
to replace ¡K the Administration in 
Washington or that in Tehran?¡§ 
bombs, as the case may be? 
Instead the debate, such as 
it was, focused on whether or 

ments about Israel¡¦s most 
important ally ¡K laid bare 
the tension between him and President Obama 
over how to handle Iran. They also suggested that 
he is willing to use the pressure of the presidential 
election to try to force Mr. Obama to commit 
to attack Iran under certain conditions. 

Mr. Netanyahu, speaking at a news conference 
in Jerusalem said, ¡§Those in the international community 
who refuse to put red lines before Iran don¡¦t 
have a moral right to place a red light before Israel.¡¨ 

In demanding that Mr. Obama effectively issue 
an ultimatum to Iran, Mr. Netanyahu appeared to 
be making maximum use of his political leverage 
at a time when Mr. Obama¡¦s Republican opponent, 
Mitt Romney, has sought to make an issue of what 
Mr. Romney says is the administration¡¦s lack of 
support for Israel. 

It is not clear what level of development in Iran¡¦s 
nuclear program would constitute a ¡§red line¡¨ in 
Israeli eyes. Dore Gold, president of the Jerusalem 
Center for Public Affairs, a research institute, and 
a former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations, 
said in an interview last week: 

Mr. Netanyahu, who is highly attuned to American 
politics, seemed to be using his comments to 
pressure Mr. Obama to specify at which point the 
United States would be prepared to take military 
action against Iran, perhaps at the United Nations 
General Assembly opening this month. (NYT, 11 
September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: Rather than use language appropriate 
to this overt attempt by a foreign power to manipulate the 
outcome of America¡¦s presidential race, the Times couched 

not to support an Israeli at


tack, rather than the condemnation 
of ¡§who the hell are they to tell the United States 
of America what to do and when to do it?¡¨ 

While the American media and its politicians were too 
timid to openly criticize Netanyahu, his inappropriate intrusion 
into the US elections was condemned in the plainest 
language by Shaul Mofaz, head of Israel¡¦s Kadima party: 

¡§Mr. prime minister, you want a crude, rude, unprecedented, 
reckless, and risky intervention in the US elections. 
Tell us who you serve and for what? Why are 
you putting your hand deep into the ballot boxes of the 
American electorate? Who are you trying to replace ¡K 
the Administration in Washington or that in Tehran?¡¨ 
(Christian Science Monitor, 5 September 2012) 

And as for Netanyahu¡¦s reprimand that ¡§Those in the international 
community who refuse to put red lines before 
Iran don¡¦t have a moral right to place a red light before 
Israel¡¨ ¡V it was a red herring, there was no ¡§red light.¡¨ 

Other than the billions it received yearly from American 
taxpayers, Israel was free to do as it pleased. What was 
being left out of the discussion was that Israel lacked the 
firepower and needed United States military support in 
order to launch an attack against Iran with any hope of 
succeeding. 

A ¡§Bibi Bomb¡¨ In late September, at the annual 
gathering of world leaders at the UN, President Obama, 
in his speech before the General Assembly, reiterated his 
position that ¡§a nuclear-armed Iran is not a challenge that 
can be contained ¡K The United States will do what we 
must to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.¡¨ 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
With Obama suddenly taking a 4 percent lead over Romney 
in Florida and maintaining a comfortable 65 percent to 
24 percent overall lead among Jewish voters, the political 
pressure for an immediate ¡§red 
line¡¨ decision abated. 

In a subsequent appearance 
before the General Assembly, 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu gave a speech that 
should have been denounced as 
the ravings of a lunatic, and put 
on a performance that should 
have had him laughed off the 
stage. 

While declaring that he 
may postpone a military attack 
against Iran¡¦s nuclear facilities, he 
launched a tirade that compared 
the Iranian government to Al Qaeda which he described as 
¡§a fanatic ideology bent on world domination,¡¦ adding that 
¡§It makes little differences whether these lethal weapons 
are in the hands of the world¡¦s most dangerous terrorist regime, 
or the world¡¦s most dangerous terrorist organization.¡¨ 

To drive the point home of the danger Iran posed and 
why it must be stopped, he displayed a cartoon diagram 


of a bomb, so infantile in its execution that even the most 
provincial among the UN delegates should have seen it as 
either an insult to their intelligence or surreal. 

A cartoon bomb? This man, 
with one finger on the ¡§launch 
button¡¨ and a crayon in his hand 
drawing a ¡§red line¡¨ just below 
the fuse of the bomb was showing 
the world how close it was to 
doomsday! 

¡§The hour is getting late, very 
late,¡¨ he foamed, ¡§The red line 
must be drawn on Iran¡¦s nuclear 
enrichment program because 
these facilities are the only nuclear 
installations we can see 
and target.¡¨ 

Instead of the UN guards putting 
him in straightjacket and hustling him off stage, he 
was allowed to finish his speech. 

Trends Analysis: There were no denunciations from the 
American Presstitutes of Bibi¡¦s belligerent and delirious 
harangue, nor was there mockery of his ludicrous cartoon 
bomb and puerile drawing of the red line. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


In fact, it was the opposite. The New York Times reported 
the UN bomb drawing incident with all due Prime 
Ministerial respect: 

¡§With an almost professorial air, Mr. Netanyahu 
held up a diagram of a bomb with a fuse to show 
the Israeli view of Iran¡¦s progress in achieving the 
ability to make a nuclear weapon. He drew a red 
line through the point at which Iran would have 
amassed enough medium-enriched uranium to 
make a bomb ¡X which he said would be in the 
spring or summer of 2013.¡¨ 

Imagine if Putin, Chavez or Ahmadinejad pulled a stunt 
like Netanyahu¡¦s. The media would have had a field day 
and politicians would have been piling it on ¡V denouncing, 
ridiculing and pronouncing them unfit to rule. 

And there was no warning issued to Netanyahu by UN 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon ¡V as there had been to 
Ahmadinejad prior to his speech ¡V of the dangers of incendiary 
rhetoric that could result in ¡§potentially harmful 
consequences.¡¨ 

Nor was there political fallout following Bibi¡¦s assertion 
that Iran was ¡§the world¡¦s most dangerous terrorist 
organization ¡K bent on world domination,¡¨ a claim so idiotic 
that even the Western Presstitutes should have found 
it too implausible to swallow. 

Iran with a bomb! World domination! Think of it! 

First America, then Russia, then China, followed by 
Europe ¡K and in the blink of a cosmic eye, Estonia, Bangladesh, 
Haiti, Borneo, Brunei, Iceland ¡K Disneyland! 
There would be no stopping them. No more Walmarts, 
Starbucks, Dunkin Donuts, McDonalds. Before you know 
it, we¡¦ll all be speaking Farsi and eating falafel. 

Draw the ¡§red line¡¨ before it¡¦s too late! 

Trend Forecast: Pre-or-post election, be it Romney or 
Obama, would America¡¦s President eventually bow to Israeli 
pressure for military action against Iran? If so, there 
can no longer be any question about the pervasive level of 
Israeli influence on American policy. 

Should there be an US/Israel attack on Iran, as we have 
long forecast, it will be the beginning of World War III. 
And with Israel¡¦s fingerprints all over it, it will unleash 
a global wave of anti-Semitism unparalleled in modern 
history. 

Publisher¡¦s Note: That attacking Iran was even being 
contemplated, much less vigorously promoted, in a destabilized 
Middle East wracked with violence and disintegrating 
into civil wars, could be termed nothing less than 
an act of total madness. 

9/11¡V11 


Suddenly God¡¦s place on the political platforms ¡V along 
with Iran, jobs and the economy ¡V was upstaged when, on 
September 11th, the 11th anniversary of 9/11, terror struck 
in Libya: 

Libya Attack Brings Challenges for U.S. 

CAIRO ¡X Islamist militants armed with antiaircraft 
weapons and rocket-propelled grenades 
stormed a lightly defended United States diplomatic 
mission in Benghazi, Libya, late Tuesday, 
killing the American ambassador and three 
members of his staff and raising questions about 
the radicalization of countries swept up in the 
Arab Spring. 

The ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens, was 
missing almost immediately after the start of an 
intense, four-hour firefight for control of the mission, 
and his body was not located until Wednesday 
morning at dawn, when he was found dead 
at a Benghazi hospital, American and Libyan officials 
said. 

American and European officials said that 
while many details about the attack remained 
unclear, the assailants seemed organized, well 
trained and heavily armed, and they appeared to 
have at least some level of advance planning. But 
the officials cautioned that it was too soon to tell 
whether the attack was related to the anniversary 
of the Sept. 11 attacks. 

Fighters involved in the assault, which was 
spearheaded by an Islamist brigade formed during 
last year¡¦s uprising against Col. Muammar el-
Qaddafi, said in interviews during the battle that 
they were moved to attack the mission by anger 
over a 14-minute, American-made video that depicted 
the Prophet Muhammad, Islam¡¦s founder, 
as a villainous, homosexual and child-molesting 
buffoon. Their attack followed by just a few hours 
the storming of the compound surrounding the 
United States Embassy in Cairo by an unarmed 
mob protesting the same video. On Wednesday, 
new crowds of protesters gathered outside the 
United States Embassies in Tunis and Cairo. 

Benghazi, awash in guns, has recently witnessed 
a string of assassinations as well as attacks 
on international missions, including a bomb said 
to be planted by another Islamist group that exploded 
near the United States mission there as 
recently as June. 

Obama administration officials and regional 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


officials scrambled to sort out conflicting reports 
about the attack and the motivation of the attackers. 
A senior Obama administration official told 
reporters during a conference call that ¡§it was 
clearly a complex attack,¡¨ but offered no details. 

Col. Wolfgang Pusztai, who until early August 
was Austria¡¦s defense attache to Libya and visited 
the country every month, said in an e-mail that 
he believed the attack was ¡§deliberately planned 
and executed¡¨ by a core group of about 30 to 40 
assailants who were ¡§well trained and organized.¡¨ 

Stationed in Benghazi during the uprising 
against Colonel Qaddafi, Mr. Stevens, who was 
fluent in Arabic and French, had become a local 
hero for his support to the Libyan rebels 
during their time of greatest need. (NYT, 12 
September 2012) 

The first ten words of this 2,304-word New York Times 
article told the untold story: ¡§Islamist militants armed 
with antiaircraft weapons and rocket-propelled grenades.¡¨ 
Were these the same rebels to whom Ambassador Stevens 
had ¡§become a local hero¡¨? 

Were these the same rebels for whom President Obama, 
former French President Sarkozy and Prime Minister David 
Cameron launched their ¡§humanitarian¡¨ mission to 
bring freedom and democracy to Libya? 

Or were the rebels that killed Ambassador Stevens 
The Libyan Islamic Fighting Group (LIFG) that Colonel 
Muammar Qaddafi had accused of fueling unrest and 
trying to overthrow his government and establish an Islamic 
state? (The same LIGF founded by Libyans that had 
fought against Soviet forces in Afghanistan, which the US 
had supported and who would subsequently play a key 
role in overthrowing the Qaddafi regime.) 

It was yet another grotesque example of American foreign 
policy achieving results diametrically opposed to 
those always-phony promises of bringing freedom and 
democracy to the repressed masses, especially when they 
were sitting on billions of gallons of oil and not playing 
the oil game according to America¡¦s rules. 

Stevens¡¦s death immediately became a political 
football that was thrown into The Presidential Reality 
Show spotlight: 

Romney¡¦s quick criticism 
on Libya draws rebuke 

President Obama and even some 
Republicans criticize Mitt Romney for assailing 
the initial administration response on the day 
of the attacks on U.S. diplomatic missions in 
Libya and Egypt 


WASHINGTON ¡X The deeply partisan nature 
of this year¡¦s campaign intruded abruptly into a 
foreign policy crisis as Republican nominee Mitt 
Romney sharply criticized the Obama administration 
for issuing an ¡§apology for America¡¦s values¡¨ 
and the president retorted that his challenger was 
politicizing a tragedy. 

Romney¡¦s speed in assailing ¡X his campaign issued 
its first statement Tuesday night ¡X appeared 
to some to violate traditions of at least momentary 
unity in the face of a foreign threat. 

In a brief news conference in Jacksonville, 
Fla., Romney said that it was ¡§a terrible course to 

¡X for America to stand in apology for our values.¡¨ 
¡§When our grounds are being attacked and being 
breached, that the first response of the United 
States must be outrage at the breach of the sovereignty 
of our nation. And apology for America¡¦s 
values is never the right course.¡¨ (NYT, 13 September 
2012) 

In ¡§Romney World¡¨ where America is always right, an 
¡§apology for America¡¦s values is never the right course,¡¨ 
even when America¡¦s deeds are direct contradictions of 
such American values as invading sovereign nations, 
starting wars that kill millions for trumped up reasons, 
targeted assassinations and drone attacks that kill civilians 
and that violate International law. 

As critics attacked Romney for his insensitivity in politicizing 
the ambassador¡¦s death, Obama picked up the 
fumble and ran with it. ¡§Gov. Romney seems to have a 
tendency to shoot first and aim later,¡¨ Obama said. ¡§As 
president, one of the things I¡¦ve learned is you can¡¦t do 
that; it¡¦s important for you to make sure that the statements 
that you make are backed up by the facts. We will 
not waver in our commitment to see that justice is done 
for this terrible act. And make no mistake, justice will 
be done.¡¨ 

In pursuit of ¡§justice¡¨ (i.e., killing anyone suspected 
of having participated in the consulate attack), 
Obama dispatched two battleships to Libya and sent 
in the Marines: 

Marines sent into Libya after 
envoy is killed in attack 

The US stepped up security at embassies around 
the world and sent a contingent of marines to Libya 
after its ambassador was killed in an attack on 
the US consulate in the eastern city of Benghazi. 

In what US officials said appeared to have been 
a planned operation, an armed group attacked 
the consulate for more than 4. hours on Tuesday 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


evening. It was the first time a US ambassador has 
been killed abroad in more than 30 years. 

The killing of the ambassador underlined the 
continued lawlessness in post-revolution Libya 
and its government¡¦s inability to restore security. 

It was also a deadly reminder for the US and its 
western allies of the complex realities of a more 
democratic north Africa that they are helping to 
shape ¡V one in which the old security state has 
been decimated and new governments are still 
struggling to assert themselves. 

The US played a key role in the international 
campaign that helped oust Muammar Gaddafi last 
year and has been a supporter of the new interim 
authority. 

¡§Today, many Americans are asking ¡V indeed, I 
asked myself ¡V how could this happen? How could 
this happen in a country we helped liberate, in a 
city we helped save from destruction?¡¨ said Hillary 
Clinton, US secretary of state. ¡§This question 
reflects just how complicated and, at times, how 
confounding the world can be.¡¨ (FT, 13 September 
2012) 

Trends Analysis: There was Hillary Clinton, the loudest 
war hawk in the White House, who had screeched for the 
invasion of Libya ¡V a sovereign nation at peace with the 
United States ¡V with a mission statement to overthrow its 
leader, asking rhetorically ¡§how could this happen?¡¨ 

More appropriately, why wasn¡¦t anyone asking if this 
woman (who giggled, ¡§We came, we saw, he died,¡¨ and 
bounced with glee on TV at the news of Qaddafi¡¦s death) 
was actually deranged to even ask such a daft question, 
with such an obvious answer? 

How could this not happen! 

Yet the Presstitutes not only repeated Madam Secretary¡¦s 
absurdities verbatim and without comment, as 
shown in the video link above, they laughed along and 
nodded in agreement. Thus, when Hillary states ¡§This 
question reflects how complicated and confounding the 
world could be,¡¨ she is given a free ride. Her statement 
is accepted, implicitly suggesting that if she¡¦s bewildered, 
then it must be bewildering to everyone. 

And, while it may have seemed ¡§complicated¡¨ to a 
simpleton and looked ¡§confounding¡¨ to someone utterly 
out of touch with the world, it was neither. It was as simple 
as one, two, three, and what it ¡§reflected¡¨ was American 
foreign policy: attack, invade, destroy and occupy. 

Thousands of deaths, mass destruction, bombed-out 
cities, wanton slaughter ¡V how could it NOT happen? 
America¡¦s decades of hegemonic foreign policy can, and 
has, engendered deep hatred and a thirst for revenge: 

Libya: 
¡§Death To America¡¨ 


by Dr. Paul Craig Roberts 

KINGSTON, NY, 14 September 2012 ¡X Try to imagine 
more deluded reporting than this by America¡¦s Presstitute 
¡§free press:¡¨ For 11 years Washington, in pursuit of 
its rightful hegemony, has been sending troops, bombers, 
jet fighters, helicopter gunships, drones and assassination 
teams into seven Muslim countries. Two of the Muslim 
countries, Iraq and Libya, and perhaps more depending 
on how you see it, have been overthrown by Washington 
and left in chaos. 

Washington¡¦s assaults on seven countries have blown 
up weddings, funerals, kids¡¦ soccer games, farm houses, 
hospitals, aid workers, schools, people walking along the 
streets, village elders. But the Muslims don¡¦t mind! They 
understand that the well-meaning Americans who love 
them and are committed to their human rights are bringing 
them democracy and women¡¦s rights. The million or 
more dead, maimed, and displaced Muslims are a low 
price to be paid for liberation by Washington. 

The Muslims understand that liberation has costs and 
are content with Washington¡¦s liberating violence until 
some idiot in California produced an anti-Islamic film. 
This film, and not Washington¡¦s predations, set the Muslim 
world alive with ¡§hate America.¡¨ 

On the symbolic date of September 11, the US ambassador 
to Libya and some other Washington representatives 
were assassinated in Libya. According to the 
Presstitute media, the assassins did not kill the Americans 
because Washington destroyed their country and 
left them in chaos. The assassins killed the Americans 
because of a trailer for an anti-Islamic film for which the 
murdered American representatives were not responsible. 

This is the way Washington works and thinks. It is not 
Washington¡¦s slaughter of Muslims and control over their 
societies and political life that produces blowback. It is 
independent film-makers in California! 

Deluded politicians in Washington, both Republicans 
and Democrats and, of course, the bought-and-paid-for 
¡§experts,¡¨ brought these forceful rejections of America 
upon us all. Washington has not only attacked Muslim 
countries on the basis of concocted lies ¡V weapons of 
mass destruction, al-Qaeda connections, brutal dictators 

¡V but also destroyed the secular governments that held 
the Islamists in check, and prevented their attacks on US 
representatives and institutions. 
In Egypt, long an American puppet state, the US Embassy 
was stormed and the US flag was torn apart. If 
only this were all, Washington could again purchase the 
Egyptian government, as it has done since Anwar Sadat¡¦s 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


assassination. But the ongoing news is that anti-
American protests are not only spreading across 
the Middle East but erupting throughout the 
world: Morocco, Sudan, Tunisia, Iraq, Yemen, 
Iran, Gaza, Bangladesh, Lebanon, London, and 
even into Israel. 

The Obama administration is blaming al-Qaeda, 
an Islamist group that the administration is 
currently supporting in its efforts to overthrow 
the secular Assad government in Syria and the 
group that the Obama administration used to 
overthrow the Libyan government, thus leaving 
a power vacuum in its place. Having destroyed 
the protection from Islamist attacks that secular 
Arab rulers provided Washington, Obama, in a 
show of force, has sent drones, aircraft carriers, 
Marines, and Tomahawk missile ships to Libya, 
raising the prospect that more schools and children¡¦s 
soccer games will be mistaken for jihadi 
encampments and blown up. 

Attempting to politicize the turmoil, Presidential candidate 
Mitt Romney declared that the US needed him in 
the White House and as president he would provide ¡§¡K 
the leadership that America respects and will keep us admired 
throughout the world.¡¨ 

What admiration is Romney talking about? Who are 
these admirers? In Egypt, Muslims marching to the beat 
of ¡§death to America,¡¨ have not been deterred by police 
after three days of protests. CBS News reports that ¡§police 
continue to fire tear gas in hopes it will deplete the 
strength of the demonstrators but they [the demonstrators] 
are proving relentless.¡¨ 

KINGS GOOD, DICTATORS BAD! 

Unlike the Washington-supported Saudi royal family that 
absorbs most of their nation¡¦s oil income, Qaddafi allocated 
the oil money to Libyans. In Cynthia McKinney¡¦s 
excellent book, ¡§The Illegal War On Libya,¡¨ Stephen 
Lendman writes that Qaddafi ¡§wanted Libyans to share in 
the country¡¦s oil wealth, a notion foreign to America and 
other Western societies. Under his 1999 Decision No. 111, 
all Libyans received free healthcare, education, electricity, 
water, training, rehabilitation, housing assistance, disability, 
old-age benefits, interest-free state loans, as well 
as generous subsidies to study abroad, buy a new car, help 
when they marry, practically free gasoline, and more.¡¨ 

Why did such a relatively wealthy and egalitarian country 
need to be ¡§liberated¡¨ by Washington and its NATO 
war criminal puppet state? 

What was achieved by overthrowing a government that 
provided for its people in better ways than do Western 
governments for the people they govern? 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
The US is the new Rome, and Europe, the UK, Canada, 
Japan, and Australia are its tributary dominions, along 
with the oil kingdoms. 

In his book, ¡§Rubicon,¡¨ Tom Holland describes what it 
is like to be a dominion of a powerful and ruthless military 
state: 

¡§Prior to the cataclysms of B.C. 146, there had been 
some confusion as to the precise definition of ¡¥freedom.¡¦ 
When the Romans claimed to be guaranteeing it, what 
did this mean? ¡K Roman and Greek interpretations of 
¡¥freedom¡¦ diverged. To the Romans, freedom meant an opportunity 
for the city states to follow rules laid down by 
Roman commissioners.¡¨ 

This is the ¡§freedom¡¨ that Washington imposes on 
the world. Washington is the ubermensch. The rest of the 
world is Washington¡¦s playground. Ruling as Rome did, 
Washington installs puppets and relies on their obeisance. 

In the end, empire destroys itself. Washington¡¦s hubris 
and arrogance is turning the world against America. 
Thanks to the Clintons, the Bushes, Cheney, Obama and 
the neoconservatives, America, instead of being loved or 
even respected, is hated with a rising passion. The widespread 
attacks on the imperial power¡¦s embassies are only 
the beginning. 

As Gerald Celente had forecast, The 1st Great War of 
the 21st Century has begun.¡¨ ¡E 


A BAD FLICK No, no. It was simply a crude offensive movie 
trailer¡¦ that sparked the Libyan embassy attack and the 
subsequent demonstrations that spread worldwide. Anybody 
seeing it as a consequence of the United States and 
NATO¡¦s brazen overthrow of a sovereign nation lacked a 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
NATO airstrike kills eight 
women and girls in Afghanistan 

Seven victims in hospital as villagers take 

bodies to provincial governor¡¦s office after 

women gathering firewood are hit 
Bodies of women Afghan officials say were 
killed in the airstrike are brought to a hospital 
in the Alingar district of Laghman 
province. 

Eight women and girls gathering firewood 
were killed by a NATO airstrike in 
Afghanistan early on Sunday, according to 
Afghan officials. 

The coalition says it believes only insurgents 
were hit. But villagers from Alingar 
district in the remote Laghman province, 
east of Kabul, brought the bodies 
to the governor¡¦s office in the provincial 
capital, said Sarhadi Zewak, a spokesman 
for the provincial government. ¡§They were 
shouting ¡¥death to America¡¦ They were 
condemning the attack,¡¨ Zewak said. 

Seven females were taken to area hospitals, 
some as young as 10, said provincial 
health director Latif Qayumi. 

B.A. in Russian and Eastern European Studies from Yale 
University and never earned a PhD in Bullshit, as has 
White House Press Secretary Jay Carney: 
Carney: Protests not 
directed at the United States 

The White House insisted Friday that anti-American 
protests roiling the Middle East are not directed 
at President Obama¡¦s policies, but at a film 
produced in the U.S. that Muslims find offensive. 

¡§This is not a case of protest directed at the 
United States writ large or at U.S. policy,¡¨ said 
White House press secretary Jay Carney. ¡§It is in 
response, not to United States policy, not to, obviously, 
the administration, not to the American 
people, but to a video, a film, that we have judged 
to be reprehensible, disgusting.¡¨ (The Washington 
Free Beacon, 14 September 2012) 

No, no, no, the consulate attack and worldwide protests 
were not in response to the endless stream of US atrocities 

¡V assassinations, predator drone strikes, torture camps or 
America¡¦s 11-year Afghan War that routinely produces 
headlines such as the one that ran shortly after Carney 
maintained it was the offending movie clip that brought 
on the violence: 
NATO forces at first said that about 45 

insurgents and no civilians were killed 
in the attack. But spokesman Jamie Graybeal 
said later that they took the allegations of civilian 
deaths seriously and were investigating them, 
though initial reports showed only insurgents 
were killed. 

Air strikes have been a sensitive issue between 
the Afghan people ¡V who say civilians often end 
up killed along with or instead of insurgents ¡V and 
NATO forces who maintain that they are a key 
tactic against insurgent leaders. (Guardian, 16 
September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: While it may have been a ¡§key tactic¡¨ it 
was a proven abject and murderous failure. To persist in 
employing it was manifest insanity. 

Yet the media corps would not only let the NATO 
spokesman get away with it unchallenged, but reported 
it in such a way as to make it look credible and sound 
authoritative. 

Eleven years of war, with its troop surges and bold 
promises of ¡§impressive progress¡¨ made by US and NATO 
generals ¡K ¡§impressive progress¡¨ in producing tens of 
thousands dead, hundreds of thousands wounded, and a 
country in ruins with nothing gained other than hatred 
and the populace¡¦s desire for revenge. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


ACCESSORIES TO THE CRIME The Presstitutes pressed 
on, reporting propaganda as fact. Just as they repeated the 
2001 White House line that America had been attacked 
on 9/11 because ¡§they hate our freedom and liberty,¡¨ so 
the 9/11 attack on the American consulate in Libya, eleven 
years to the day later, was described as being launched 
solely as a response to an inflammatory anti-Muslim trailer 
for a film produced by an obscure, amateur American filmmaker. 


Whatever came out of the White House (regardless of 
who was living in it) was taken at face value. And when 
high officials spoke, their words were given much more 
weight than if they had been spoken by someone who actually 
knew what he or she was talking about, and wasn¡¦t 
lying or spinning the truth: 

Susan Rice: Libya Protests 
¡¥Hijacked¡¦ by Extremists 

An Obama administration official said Sunday 
that the deadly attack on a U.S. consulate in Libya 
last week was the work of ¡§individual clusters of 
extremists¡¨ but began as a spontaneous protest. 

Libya¡¦s interim president, Mohammed Al-
Megarif, suggested on Sunday that al-Qaeda was 
behind the deadly assault on the U.S. consulate 
in Benghazi, which claimed the life of the U.S. 
ambassador. 

Ms. Rice said on ABC that the assault on the 

U.S. consulate in Benghazi Tuesday started with 
a ¡§small number of people¡¨ seeking to replicate 
a violent protest that had broken out in Cairo. 
¡§And then as that unfolded, it seems to have been 
hijacked, let us say, by some individual clusters 
of extremists who came with heavier weapons, 
weapons that ¡K in the wake of the revolution in 
Libya ¡K are quite common and accessible,¡¨ she 
said. ¡§And it then evolved from there.¡¨ 
Mr. Magrief said, in contrast, ¡§if you take into 
account the weapons used, like RPGs [rocketpropelled 
grenades] and other heavy weapons, it 
proves that it was pre-planned. It¡¦s a dirty act of 
revenge that has nothing to do with religion.¡¨ 

The consulate attack in Benghazi killed four 
Americans, including the U.S. ambassador to 
Libya, Christopher Stevens. A question that has 
lingered since is whether it started as a spontaneous 
protest or had been planned by extremists. 

Ms. Rice told ¡§Fox News Sunday¡¨ that the 
protests weren¡¦t an ¡§expression of hostility in 
the broadest sense to the U.S. or its policies,¡¨ but 
rather were a reaction to the video negatively depicting 
the Muslim faith. She said that it was diffi


cult to ¡§project the trajectory¡¨ of how the reaction 
of protesters around the region would develop. 

In appearances on several Sunday talk shows, 
Ms. Rice described Mr. Obama as ¡§incredibly 
calm, incredibly steady, and incredibly measured¡¨ 
through the crisis. She said his leadership 
has ¡§ensured that in Egypt, in Yemen, in Tunisia, 
in Libya, and many other parts of the world, that 
leaders have come out and made very plain that 
there¡¦s no excuse for this violence. 

She dismissed suggestions that the U.S. has 
become less effective or popular in the region. 
¡§We¡¦re not impotent,¡¨ she said in response to a 
question on ¡§This Week.¡¨ ¡§We¡¦re not even less 
popular.¡¨ (Bloomberg, 16 September 2012) 

In keeping with their motto: ¡§A Presstitute is a Presstitute 
is a Presstitute is a Presstitute,¡¨ the American media 
recorded and reported these self-serving, uninformed observations, 
declarations and conjectures without so much 
as a grimace, since, after all, they were spoken by a voice 
of authority, the US Ambassador to the UN. 

Trends Analysis: No, America was ¡§not even less popular.¡¨ 
That was why, around the globe, mobs were burning 
the American flag and screaming ¡§Death to America.¡¨ 

And no, according to Ambassador Rice, the protests 
weren¡¦t an ¡§expression of hostility in the broadest sense to 
the U.S. or its policies.¡¨ Could anyone take this nonsense 
seriously? In the ¡§broadest sense,¡¨ the narrowest sense 
and every other sense, the ¡§expressions of hostility¡¨ were 
precisely what they seemed to be and were understood as 
such by anyone with common sense. 

Implicit was the message ¡§there was nothing to worry 
about.¡¨ As soon as the offending movie is forgotten, the 
¡§expressions of hostility¡¨ will cease and the Arabs of the 
world will unite to sing the praises of all things American. 

And, not to forget, no matter what happened, how it 
happened, or why it happened, the situation was under 
control. As the distinguished UN Ambassador assured the 
American people, Mr. Obama (in between his rolled-upsleeve, 
non-stop campaign stops, golf games and rounds of 
basketball) was a Commander-in-Chief who was ¡§incredibly 
calm, incredibly steady, and incredibly measured¡¨ 
through the crisis ¡K especially since he was thousands 
of miles away from the consulate when it was bombarded. 

We¡¦re Better Than You Presidents, Secretaries 
of This and That, Ministers of Importance, Ambassadors 
of Wherever and all those of Higher Authority not 
only knew what was best for everyone, they lived in a dif-

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


ferent world ¡K and even died in a different world. 
Not only were they more important in life, they were 

more important in death: 

Diplomats¡¦ Bodies Return to U.S. 

WASHINGTON ¡X As four flag-draped coffins 
bearing the bodies of the Americans killed in 
Libya arrived in the United States on Friday, new 
details emerged of Ambassador J. Christopher 
Stevens¡¦s final hours, alone, locked in a smoke-
filled room in a diplomatic mission under siege. 

In a solemn ceremony at Joint Base Andrews 
outside the capital, President Obama said the victims 
¡§laid down their lives for us all¡¨ and vowed 
to honor their memory by never retreating from 
the world. 

The arrival, broadcast live on news channels, 
proved an emotional culmination to an episode 
that has rocked Washington and American embassies 
around the world, even as details of those final 
fateful moments only now began to come clear. 

Mr. Obama called Mr. Stevens ¡§everything 
America could want in an ambassador.¡¨ 

Of the three others killed in the attack, he 
said Sean Smith, a Foreign Service officer and an 
Air Force veteran, had ¡§lived to serve.¡¨ Tyrone S. 
Woods, a former member of the Navy SEALs providing 
diplomatic security, was ¡§the consummate 
quiet professional.¡¨ And Glen A. Doherty, also a 
former member of the SEALs providing security, 
¡§never shied from adventure.¡¨ 

¡§Even in our grief we will be resolute, for we 
are Americans,¡¨ Mr. Obama said. ¡§And we hold 
our head high, knowing that because of these patriots, 
because of you, this country that we love 
will always shine as a light unto the world.¡¨ 

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, 
who looked stricken and seemed to be fighting her 
emotions, echoed those sentiments. ¡§We will wipe 
away our tears, stiffen our spines and face the future 
undaunted,¡¨ she said. All four worked for her, 
and she spoke slowly and with evident grief. She 
knew Mr. Stevens personally, she said, praising 
his ¡§goofy but contagious¡¨ smile, his ¡§California 
cool¡¨ and, mostly, his dedication and courage. 

¡§What a wonderful gift you gave us,¡¨ she told 
his family. ¡§Over his distinguished career in the 
Foreign Service, Chris won friends for the United 
States in far-flung places. He made those people¡¦s 
hopes his own. During the revolution in Libya, he 
risked his life to help protect the Libyan people 
from a tyrant, and he gave his life helping them 

build a better country.¡¨ 

Her voice grew stronger again as she called 

on leaders in the Middle East to fulfill their ob


ligations to protect diplomatic posts. ¡§The peo


ple of Egypt, Libya, Yemen and Tunisia did not 

trade the tyranny of a dictator for the tyranny 

of a mob,¡¨ she said. ¡§Reasonable people and re


sponsible leaders in these countries need to do 

everything they can to restore security and hold 

accountable those behind these violent acts.¡¨ 

(NYT, 14 September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: And so it was, when one of those higher 
authorities got killed, it ¡§rocked Washington and American 
embassies around the world and a made-for-TV ¡§solemn 
ceremony¡¨ was ¡§broadcast live on news channels.¡¨ 
The Ambassador was dead, long live the Ambassador! 

But when Pvt. Mike Jones gets blown to pieces by a 
roadside bomb, or Cpl. Tammy White gets a bullet in the 
head, or Sgt. Jose Gonzales gets murdered by the Afghan 
recruit he¡¦s supposed to be training, nothing is broadcast 
live and neither Washington nor its embassies around the 
world are rocked. When the coffins of the Average Joes 
and Janes come back, the media doesn¡¦t show them, and 
the President, Secretary of State and top military brass 
are AWOL. 

It was 24/7 non-stop propaganda. The brave, beloved, 
fluent-in-Arabic Ambassador Stevens didn¡¦t ¡§risk his life 
to help protect the Libyan people from a tyrant.¡¨ There 
are tyrants ruling throughout the world, many of whom 
America supports. In Libya, Stevens was looking after 
America¡¦s interests (i.e., doing its dirty work). The aim was 
to remove the uncooperative Qaddafi and install a puppet 
government that would allow America to better exploit 
Libya¡¦s precious high-quality sweet crude, a resource that 
the Chinese and others were freely accessing. 

Publisher¡¦s Note: Are the American people ever going to 
wake up and grow up? How many times are they going to 
buy in to the same lame, stale and demonstrably fraudulent 
storyline that the reason the United States invades, 
destroys and occupies sovereign countries that pose no 
threat to it is for the standard, one-size-fits-all, altruistic 
All-American reason: To bring freedom and democracy to 
people being oppressed by brutal dictators and tyrants? 

While American politicians keep pledging allegiance 
to the flag of the United States of America, their words 
and deeds run in direct contradiction to the words and 
deeds of the Founding Fathers whom they profess to honor, 
though only when convenient: 

¡§Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence (I conjure 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


you to believe me, fellow-citizens,) the jealousy of a free 
people ought to be constantly awake; since history and 
experience prove, that foreign influence is one of the most 
baneful foes of Republican Government. But that jealousy, 
to be useful, must be impartial; else it becomes the instrument 
of the very influence to be avoided, instead of 
a defence against it. Excessive partiality for one foreign 
nation, and excessive dislike of another, cause those whom 
they actuate to see danger only on one side, and serve to 
veil and even second the arts of influence on the other. 
Real patriots, who may resist the intrigues of the favorite, 
are liable to become suspected and odious; while its 
tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the 
people, to surrender their interests.¡¨ George Washington 

The counsel of their Founding Fathers had been consigned 
to the waste bin of history. Perhaps the American people 
would never wake up or grow up. Brainwashed since birth 
to believe ¡§my country right or wrong,¡¨ the country their 
Founding Fathers created had long since disappeared. 
¡§My country right or wrong¡¨ now meant obey your political 
leaders, follow their orders or suffer the consequences. 

Flip Flop In an instant, the White House party line 
about what happened in Libya and what motivated it was 
given a fresh new spin. Thus, the question raised but never 
asked was: Why would anyone believe the second spin 
since the first spin was sold as the official truth: 

White House: Libya was ¡¥terrorist attack¡¦ 

A White House spokesman today said it is apparent 
that last week¡¦s attack in Libya that killed a 

U.S. ambassador and three other Americans was 
an act of terrorism. 
¡§It is self-evident that what happened in Benghazi 
was a terrorist attack,¡¨ said White House 
spokesman Jay Carney.¡¨Our embassy was attacked 
violently and the result was four deaths of 
American officials.¡¨ 

Carney spoke as CNN and others, citing unnamed 
sources, reported that slain U.S. ambassador 
Chris Stevens had ¡§worried about what he 
called the never-ending security threats in Benghazi 
and mentioned his name was on an al Qaeda 
hit list.¡¨ 

As U.S. officials continue to investigate the 
deaths of Stevens and three other Americans, National 
Counterterrorism Center director Matthew 
Olsen told a Senate hearing: ¡§I would say, yes, 
they were killed in the course of a terrorist attack 
on our embassy.¡¨ 

U.S. officials initially attributed the death to 
protests over an anti-Islam film that got out of 
control. 
Aides to President Obama said the attack remains 

under investigation, including the state of security at 

the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya. 

President Obama ¡§is concerned that violent ac


tions were taken that led to the deaths of four Ameri


cans,¡¨ said White House spokesman Jay Carney. 

¡§He is absolutely concerned that we take the 
necessary measures to make sure that those who 
killed Americans are brought to justice,¡¨ Carney 
said. ¡§And he has been focused from the beginning 
on ensuring that adequate security reinforcements 
be brought to bear at embassies and consulates 
and diplomatic facilities where that¡¦s deemed 
necessary.¡¨(USA Today, 20 September 2012) 

What is the beleaguered, spin-battered public supposed 
to think? First the attack on the consulate was officially 
reported as a violent response to an offensive movie clip 
and should not be seen as ¡§an expression of hostility in the 
broadest sense to the U.S. or its policies.¡¨ Four days later 
the official new spin was that it was ¡§self-evident¡¨ that it¡¦s 
a ¡§terrorist attack.¡¨ 

The Big Questions In the days following the assault 
on the American consulate in Libya, the big questions 
being asked by the media, pundits and political opposition 
were: Was there a warning of an attack? If so, why 
didn¡¦t the ambassador have more protection? 

But a bigger question that neither the media nor the 
politicians were asking was: What the hell did you expect? 
The Americans and their NATO allies killed a lot of people 
and destroyed a country that was relatively prosperous and 
stable, despite pockets of resistance and growing unrest. 

However, that unrest became a full-blown civil war only 
when President Obama and his NATO partners intervened 
with massive air-strikes and provided armaments, intelligence 
and other military support to anti-Qaddafi forces. 

So maybe, just maybe, the Libyans who attacked the 
US consulate were not the ¡§militants¡¨ or ¡§extremists¡¨ vilified 
by politicians and the media. Possibly, just possibly, 
they were Qaddafi loyalists seeking revenge. 

WHAT IF? 

Suppose the tables were turned. Suppose an outside force 
(e.g., the BRIC coalition) attacked, invaded and destroyed 
America on the pretext of ridding the country of the Washington 
tyrants who had robbed the people of their Constitutional 
rights, enriched the already-rich one percent at 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


the expense of the 99 percent, and who had started wars 
under false pretenses, sacrificing the lives and limbs of 
its troops only to enrich the military industrial complex. 

Would those Americans who rose up to oppose the invaders 
be vilified as ¡§militants¡¨ or ¡§extremists¡¨? Or would 
they be considered resistance fighters, revered as patriots 
and martyrs for risking their lives to throw out the new 
government imposed upon them? 

No, as a befuddled Hillary Clinton claimed, the world 
was not ¡§complicated¡¨ and ¡§confounding.¡¨ In the case of 
Libya, it was simple. Anyone understanding the cause and 
effect of trend dynamics (where we are, how we got here 
and where we¡¦re going) would understand what happened, 
why it happened and where it was heading. 

It may have seemed ¡§confounding¡¨ to the Presstitutes, 
pundits, politicians and the tens of millions of indoctrinated 
Americans who believe in their President and 
¡§my country, right or wrong.¡¨ And it may have seemed 
¡§complicated¡¨ to the followers of Democratic and Republican 
cults that, with Hillary, would wonder, ¡§How could 
this happen in a country we helped liberate, in a city we 
helped save from destruction?¡¨ 

Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya ¡V the same propaganda is used 
to justify America¡¦s invasions or incursions and the same 
propaganda is used to demonize all those who refuse to be 
ruled by whoever it may be that the US demands should 
rule them. Those that fight back, those that do not want 
American-style freedom and democracy are militants, extremists, 
terrorists and, sophomorically, ¡§The Bad Guys.¡¨ 

AMATEUR HOUR 

In an October 3, 2011 Trend Alert, we forecast that President 
Obama would defeat any of the Republican front-runners 
competing for the nomination at that time, one of whom 
was Mitt Romney. This forecast was not based on perceived 
or substantive differences between the Republican challengers 
and the President, but rather on the superficiality 
of the entire spectacle. 

In short, we predicted Obama would be re-elected not 
because of his performance in office but because of his 
performance on stage. We wrote: 

The Presidential Reality Show 

¡§Reflecting back on the debates between Republican 
candidates, Celente says, ¡§This isn¡¦t politics 
as an exercise in Democracy in action, it¡¦s politics 
as show business for ugly people. 

Anyone who saw the September 12th debate 
hosted by CNN witnessed an early episode of The 

Presidential Reality Show. It was a star-spangled, 
made-for-TV-spectacle appropriating the lowest 
common denominator elements of the World 
Wrestling Federation, the Miss America Pageant 
and American Idol. 

¡§Given that this is what is passed off as political 
¡¥debate¡¦ in America, come Election Day, 
the American Idol winner (a.k.a. The President of 
the United States) will be the best performer. And 
Barack Obama has proven that he can out-perform 
and out-teleprompt them all ¡V he will tell the 
teleprompted truth the audience wants to hear. 

And on a stage where performance counts 
more than the heart, fans (a.k.a. the electorate) 
will vote for the Best Actor. That actor will be the 
man who commands the stage, Barack Obama.¡¨ 

TREND FORECAST UPDATE Exactly one year to the 
day since we made our forecast for an Obama victory, the 
primary component supporting it ¡V his superior stage performance 
skills ¡V dramatically deserted him. Going into 
the debate with a small, but statistically significant lead, 
Obama bombed in what was arguably the most amateurish 
debate performance ever televised. 

America is a nation in crisis, its economy in the grip 
of the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. 
Yet, with people losing their homes and their jobs, 
with the homeless population surging and nearly 50 million 
people on food stamps, with an intractable $16 trillion 
national debt, trillion-dollar budget deficits, trillions 
more in consumer and student debt, and with the military 
mired in losing wars as new wars loom, President Obama 
opened the first of three critical presidential debates with 
a calculated crowd pleaser: 

¡§There are a lot of points that I want to make tonight, but 
the most important one is that 20 years ago I became the 
luckiest man on earth because Michelle Obama agreed to 
marry me. And so I just want to wish, Sweetie, you happy 
anniversary¡K .¡¨ 

It was all part of the script. Obama¡¦s ¡§how much I love 
you Sweet Petunia after 20 years of marital bliss¡¨ may 
have warmed some women¡¦s hearts. But declaring it his 
¡§most important¡¨ point spoke subliminal volumes about 
the man, his insensitivity and his shallowness. 

Even if it was intended as no more than a lighthearted 
opening line, he and his wife were the point ¡V not the 67 
million Americans tuned into the debate, the 50 million 
on food stamps, the soldiers that had lost their lives, limbs 
and minds in futile, immoral wars. 

And from that point on he crumbled. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


WIRED AND OUT OF TOUCH 

On stage, the President rambled on, seemingly unable to 
speak a full sentence without the aid of a teleprompter, 
the ¡§mind-held device¡¨ he never leaves home without. 

The uncharacteristically un-presidential performance 
was universally panned: 

n Romney Dominates Glum President (Financial 
Times) 
n Mitt Romney comes out on top as Obama stumbles 
in first debate (The Guardian) 
n CNN poll: Romney beats Obama in first debate 
n Romney the aggressor in debate fixed on economy 
(The Jerusalem Post) 
n The 1st Round goes to Romney (Die Welt) 
n Mitt Romney breathes new life into Race (Neue 
Zuericher Zeitung) 
n Romney turns in strong debate performance¡¨ Japan 
Today 

The debate itself, such as it was, devolved into a face-off 
between an empty suit and a stuffed shirt. 

Romney, who up to the moment he took the stage, 
had been ridiculed world-wide for his serial gaffes, his 
stumbling, insincere delivery, his flip-flops and outright 
lies, suddenly turned the tables. Insofar as anything in 
The Presidential Reality Show could be called ¡§the high 
ground,¡¨ Romney took it ¡K and the audience yawned its 
way through the hour and a half of seesaw sniping. And 
although Romney was declared the hands-down winner, 
what he was the winner of is a question barely broached 
by the mainstream media. 

In the substance-free 90 minutes ¡V mainly devoted to 
tax policy and who said what, when, and what it would 
mean now ¡V it wasn¡¦t as though Romney scored points for 
trenchant analyses and proposed solutions. He simply won 
by default because Obama suffered a meltdown. 

IT AIN¡¦T OVER ¡¥TIL IT¡¦S OVER 

So uncharismatic and detached was Obama that some 
pundits even wondered if the President, wearied of the 
office, deep down, did not really care if he was re-elected. 

Was the President just off his game that night and his 
lackluster showing just a temporary setback, or did it 
mark a momentum shift that would ultimately determine 
the election? 

With two more debates to go, a month left to Election 
Day, and the elections squarely centered on personality 
and stage presence rather than on major policy differences, 
we cannot confidently forecast who will win the White 
House. That will depend upon Obama¡¦s ability and will to 
rise to the challenge. 

What we can confidently forecast is that ¡V absent an 
¡§October Surprise¡¨ in which some type of national emergency 
rallies the people around their President ¡V the candidate 
who performs the best in the TV debates will win 
the White House. 

THE NEXT FOUR YEARS Seventy million Americans 
and millions more around the world have witnessed the 
caliber of the two men contending for office. What can 
they possibly expect from either of the candidates? Yet, 
one of them will lead the nation. 

The question is, where to? 

Why should the public expect any more from either 
Romney or Obama than what they have already witnessed? 
The candidates¡¦ track records are matters of record. 
Obama pretends he would not do most of what Romney 
promises he will do. While Romney, if elected, will do 
what Obama has done for the last four years as President, 
but promised he wouldn¡¦t do. 

Yet, voters will wait for the next debate to see which 
candidate performs the best. And rather than rising in 
protest to demand a choice between a Greater of Two 
Goods, the American people will once again acquiesce 
and submit to the system and vote into office a Lesser of 
Two Evils. 

HIGH SCHOOL USA 

Who are these people telling us what¡¦s best, what¡¦s right 
and wrong, what we should do and how we should do it? 
What superhuman qualities do they possess that make 
them ¡§incredibly calm, incredibly steady, and incredibly 
measured¡¨ under the kind of pressure that would have lesser 
mortals peeing in their pants? 

They are our leaders. They are ¡§The Incredibles:¡¨ 
born of perfect parents, married to perfect wives, parents 
of special, amazing, gifted children and proud masters of 
wonder dogs. 

Yes, they are ¡§The Incredibles:¡¨ Incredibly full of 
themselves, narcissistic, pompous, arrogant boys and 
girls, most born on Easy Street and pampered from birth. 

WE KNEW THEM AS KIDS 
They ran for class president, or head of the student council. 
Some were Eagle Scouts. And now they are all grown 
up. But really, they have never grown up. In the deepest 
sense, they act and behave as if they are still in high school 
and still members of the same exclusive clique they hung 
around with as kids. You didn¡¦t like them, and they didn¡¦t 
like you. But you went your way and they went theirs. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
In spirit, they really never left high school because they 
never had to. Having never questioned the system, they 
never moved out of it. Their career paths were pre-paved 
for them. Still trapped in their teenage state of mind, they 
seldom contemplate the consequences of their decisions 
or take responsibility for their actions. In high school it 
didn¡¦t matter much. And, if they ever veered off their path 

¡V unless it was criminal ¡V their worst punishment was a 
reprimand or suspension. 
The big difference now is that with the high school 
clique in charge of the world¡¦s largest economy and most 
powerful military, its decisions and actions affect all of us. 

They continue telling us what¡¦s best for us, what¡¦s right 
and wrong, what to do and how to do it. But now, instead of 
telling them to f&#k off, entire nations listen to them, obey 
them, look up to and even fight and die at the behest of these 
high school kids who have grown older but not grown up. 

Why does it never occur to the public that the same 
wanker who was their high school class president is now 
President of the United States, Cabinet Secretary, Senator 
or Congressman? 

And the ¡§do-gooder¡¨ Eagle Scout that would rat you 
out to the teacher for cheating, has followed his pre-paved 
path through ROTC or West Point, punched his ticket up 
the military chain of command and is now the General 
who keeps losing thousands of men in losing wars. 

No, no, show respect! Having graduated and matriculated, 
they are no longer the overly ambitious, insincere, 
suck-ups and brown-nosers that you couldn¡¦t stand. They 
are ¡§lawmakers¡¨ and distinguished ¡§leaders.¡¨ 

What accounts for the behavior of the masters and of 
the enslaved, the leaders and their followers? 

I LIKE IKE 
Did Eisenhower¡¦s observation that ¡§Any man who wants 
to be president is either an egomaniac or crazy¡¨ apply 
to Mitt Romney and President Obama? The former has 
been campaigning for the office since 2007 and President 
Obama has been on the re-election campaign trail since 
April 2011. 

And what keeps people obediently following leaders, 
looking up to them and rarely questioning authority? Is 
the public also trapped in a teenage mindset? Are leaders 
surrogate parents; teachers who won¡¦t stand for disobedience? 
What would make adults follow and obey the same 
people they couldn¡¦t stand as kids? What would make 
them argue and fight among themselves over which ¡§egomaniac¡¨ 
or ¡§crazy¡¨ person would better represent their 
interests and care the most about them? 

Are they deluded by the trappings of office, the red 
carpets, the salutes, the pomp and pageantry, backed up 
by a lifetime of indoctrination? What prevents them from 
seeing through it all? 

Was it because of the way the system was sold to them 
by the Presstitutes? 

The Presstitutes Yes, the Presstitutes! Back in 
high school, these were the people who wrote the school 
newspaper and helped put together and publish the yearbook. 
And like the class presidents who followed their career 
path, they got degrees in journalism and communications 
and the most successful among them sucked their 
way up to become mouthpieces for the corporate networks 
and largest newspapers. 

In high school, the kids writing the school newspaper 
knew their place and never overstepped their bounds. 
While they played ¡§journalist,¡¨ promising their classmates 
to ask tough questions of the principal or gym teacher, 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


when it came down to it, they did their utmost to show 
respect and never questioned their subjects¡¦ authority. 

And now, as grownups, they continue to play the role and 
pretend they are hardcore journalists when in practice they 
are soft-core Presstitutes. When it comes to grilling a high-
level politician or top CEO, they respectfully pitch softball 
questions and accept the answers without challenge. 

And while it can be argued that the press has never 
been ¡§free,¡¨ what can¡¦t be argued is that never has it been 
as controlled as it is in 2012. 

The collusion between the press, politicians and CEOs 
ominously echoed the relationship that existed between the 
USSR and its apparatchiks. The USA has become the USSA. 

The excerpts from the following New York Times story 
reveal one of the most important and disturbing trends 
affecting 21st century Americans: 

Latest Word on the Trail? I Take It Back 

The quotations come back redacted, stripped of 
colorful metaphors, colloquial language and anything 
even mildly provocative. 

They are sent by e-mail from the Obama headquarters 
in Chicago to reporters who have interviewed 
campaign officials under one major condition: 
the press office has veto power over what 
statements can be quoted and attributed by name. 

Most reporters, desperate to pick the brains of 
the president¡¦s top strategists, grudgingly agree. 
After the interviews, they review their notes, 
check their tape recorders and send in the juiciest 
sound bites for review. 

The verdict from the campaign ¡X an operation 
that prides itself on staying consistently on script 

¡X is often no, Barack Obama does not approve this 
message. Quote approval is standard practice for 
the Obama campaign, used by many top strategists 
and almost all midlevel aides in Chicago and at the 
White House ¡K It is also commonplace throughout 
Washington and on the campaign trail. 
The Romney campaign insists that journalists 
interviewing any of Mitt Romney¡¦s five sons agree 
to use only quotations that are approved by the 
press office. And Romney advisers almost always 
require that reporters ask them for the green light 
on anything from a conversation that they would 
like to include in an article. 

From Capitol Hill to the Treasury Department, 
interviews granted only with quote approval have 
become the default position. Those officials who 
dare to speak out of school, but fearful of making 
the slightest off-message remark, shroud even the 
most innocuous and anodyne quotations in ano


nymity by insisting they be referred to as a ¡§top 
Democrat¡¨ or a ¡§Republican strategist.¡¨ 

Many journalists spoke about the editing only 
if granted anonymity, an irony that did not escape 
them. 

It was difficult to find a news outlet that had 
not agreed to quote approval, albeit reluctantly. 
Organizations like Bloomberg, The Washington 
Post, Vanity Fair, Reuters and The New York 
Times have all consented to interviews under 
such terms. (NYT, 15 July 2012) 

¡§Quote approval¡¨? That was a Presstitute euphemism for 
censorship! That¡¦s what it would be called in any other 
country. But back in the USSA, Presstitutes ¡§desperate to 
pick the brains of the president¡¦s top strategists, grudgingly 
agree¡¨ to ¡§conduct interviews under such terms.¡¨ 
¡§Grudgingly¡¨ or otherwise, writing only what they are 
permitted to write or repeat is not journalism, it¡¦s submission 
to authority, it¡¦s cowardice. In fact, so cowardly have 
the Presstitutes become that they insist upon ¡§anonymity¡¨ 
even when speaking to their Presstitute peers! 

American journalists had admittedly abandoned the 
principles of their profession. It wasn¡¦t about doing what 
was morally right, it was self-preservation. Suck up, bow 
down, show no self respect, be a good girl or boy, just write 
what you are told and you¡¦ll keep your job ¡V until you get 
downsized. 

But there was a major difference between journalism 
USSA and Journalism USSR. If the American Presstitutes 
did not comply they¡¦d lose their jobs; in the USSR, they¡¦d 
lose their heads. 

RIGHT ON THE MONEY 

We said they would do it before the election, and they did 
it! The Americans called it quantitative easing (QE3), the 
Europeans called it a euro rescue fund and bond intervention 
(unlimited government bonds purchased from troubled 
eurozone nations) while the Chinese and Japanese called it 
¡§stimulus.¡¨ Desperate to prop up their failing and flagging 
economies, the nations¡¦ digital presses began pumping out 
trillions of dollars, euros, yuan and yen that were not worth 
the paper they were not printed on. 

Month after month, the data ¡V imports, exports, job 
numbers, industrial production, real estate, retail sales ¡V 
added up to recession, stagnation, depression. The world 
over, it was a variation on the same theme. In countries 
that had until recently been booming there was, at best, 
minimal growth. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Although a global economy had been in place for decades, 
individual nations perpetuated an illusion of sovereignty 
and independence. But now, in September 2012, 
that illusion has been shattered. It was all inextricably 
connected, and the common denominator by any name 
(dollar, euro, yuan, real, rupee) was money, with the central 
banks working in concert to make sure the money 
kept flowing. 

In August, the overriding economic concern had been 
how to solve the European debt crisis ¡V a crisis that euro 
leaders had initially denied would occur and then, over 
the past two years, repeatedly claimed to have resolved. 
Now that crisis threatened the euro, the cohesiveness of 
the eurozone and by extension, not only the global economy 
but geopolitics. 

Indeed, it was all connected. As we have frequently emphasized, 
when Europeans and Americans cut consumer 
spending, the Chinese and other low-wage manufacturing 
nations cut production. And when they cut production, 
resource-rich countries such as Australia, Brazil, Bolivia, 
Chile, etc., export less. Thus it was about more than just 
money. Anything done to forestall and/or repair the economic 
crises was to the advantage of the incumbent political 
parties: 

Draghi helps out Obama campaign 

Barack Obama¡¦s chances of re-election as US 
president rose on Thursday and the words that did 
it were not his but Mario Draghi¡¦s. 

Long before Mr Obama stood up to accept the 
Democratic nomination in Charlotte, North Carolina, 
the head of the European Central Bank had 
sketched out a new plan to buy the bonds of troubled 
eurozone countries. 

That will not move the polls; it will not move a 
single vote. But Mr Draghi has lowered the gravest 
of risks to Mr Obama: a pre-election meltdown 
in the eurozone that would have blown up banks, 
pulverised Wall Street, and routed a fragile US 
economy back into recession. 

If that happened, it would not be Mr Obama¡¦s 
fault, but he would get the blame. Just as the failure 
of Lehman Brothers doomed his rival John 
McCain in 2008, a eurozone implosion would 
create economic odds too great for Mr Obama to 
surmount. 

The eurozone has barely been mentioned in 
the US election campaign ¡V swing voters in Ohio 
care little for Spanish bond yields ¡V but economic 
advisers to Mr Obama and his Republican rival 
Mitt Romney know its wild card potential. 

Behind the scenes, Mr Obama¡¦s economic team 

has spent much of the past year fretting about the 
eurozone, and working every diplomatic angle to 
push the Europeans towards a credible solution. 

The ECB¡¦s latest action is not the whole solution, 
but it is a forward step, and one that the central 
bank hesitated over before taking. Markets 
rallied strongly when it did. 

Dangers remain, not least from Greece, the 
world¡¦s slipperiest economic banana skin. But 
if Mr Obama does win in November, he should 
thank not just his own elegant words, but the less-
than-soaring rhetoric of an Italian central banker. 
(FT, 6 September 2012) 

New World Order In what was deemed one of 

the most important rulings in its 61-year history. Ger


many¡¦s highest court approved the nation¡¦s participation 

in a £á700 billion European Stability Mechanism (ESM) 

bailout scheme. The court ruling sacrificed sovereignty to 

the greater goal of saving the eurozone, in effect transfer


ring decision-making powers to Brussels, in order to form 

a more perfect European Union. 
Beyond the legal jargon explaining why the court came 

to its decision, in plain English, what it did was put con


trol of the entire eurozone into the hands of a handful of 

money men and power brokers: 

Europe must become 
¡¥federation of states¡¦, Barroso says 


The president of the European Commission called 
for the EU to be turned into a ¡§federation of nation 
states¡¨ in a sweeping demand for countries to 
surrender more sovereignty and move towards full 
integration. 

In a speech to the European Parliament, the 
head of the bloc¡¦s executive, President Jose Manuel 
Barroso, said ¡§Let¡¦s not be afraid of the words: 
We will need to move towards a federation of nation 
states. This is our political horizon. This is 
what must guide our work in the years to come,¡¨ 
he said in his annual ¡§state of the union¡¨ address. 

¡§A democratic federation of nation states that 
can tackle our common problems, through the 
sharing of sovereignty in a way that each country 
and its citizens are better equipped to control 
their own destiny.¡¨ 

While there may be enthusiasm in some European 
capitals for such a move, it is a vision that 
is likely to rankle in countries such as Britain, 
where there is strong opposition to the idea of 
more powers being devolved to Brussels. 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


Barroso said that in an age of 
globalisation, the EU would struggle 
to compete unless it was prepared 
to pool its sovereignty and 
act as one. 

¡§I said a federation of nation 
states because in these turbulent 
times, we should not leave the defence 
of the nation just to the nationalists 
and populists,¡¨ he said. 
¡§I believe in a Europe where people 
are proud of their nations but 
also proud to be European.¡¨ 

¡§Many will say that this is too 
ambitious, that it is not realistic,¡¨ 
he said. ¡§But let me ask you this 

-is it realistic to go on like we 
have been doing? Is it realistic to 
see more than 50 percent of young 
people without jobs in some of our 
member states? 
¡§The realistic way forward is the way that 
makes us stronger and more united. Realism is to 
put our ambition at the level of our challenges.¡¨ 
(The Telegraph, 12 September 2012) 

It was a New World Order: A Banking Order. The banks 
were giving the orders. This was no conspiracy theory. 
Barroso¡¦s call for the abrogation of national sovereignty 
and the consolidation of power in the hands of the financial 
few was being openly championed. 

And who was the champion? Jose Manuel Barroso, 
the former Prime Minister of Portugal, one of the eurozone¡¦s 
most insolvent and economically troubled 
countries, was now telling the rest of Europe what was 
good for it. Whether coming from Barroso or from the 
¡§troika¡¨ (EC, ECU and IMF) with their track records 
of failure, there is no reason to believe that anything 
they suggested would work, and every reason to believe 
it wouldn¡¦t. 

Trend Forecast: What the centralization of political and 
financial power would achieve, however, was to further 
enrich and empower the bankers and further impoverish 
the already-disempowered public. With corruption and 
criminality centralized, instead of politicians and banks 
in sovereign countries competing with each other for who 
could steal the most, a single power base would coordinate 
the crimes. 

In effect, what Barosso envisaged, and what would become 
reality if the current trends continue, was a Washington, 
DC, of Europe. 

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
Cheap Money Syndrome Complementing the 
quantitative easing, stimulus and bond-buying schemes 
were central bank moves to further lower and/or keep 
the historically low interest rates in place for years to 
come. This cheap money policy led to accusations that 
countries in economic decline were devaluing their currencies 
in order to boost exports and in doing so, igniting 
a currency war: 

Brazil¡¦s Finance Chief Attacks US Over QE3 

Guido Mantega, Brazil¡¦s finance minister, has 
warned that the U.S. Federal Reserve¡¦s ¡§protectionist¡¨ 
move to roll out more quantitative easing 
will reignite the currency wars with potentially 
drastic consequences for the rest of the world. 

¡§It has to be understood that there are consequences,¡¨ 
Mr. Mantega told the Financial Times 
in an interview on Thursday. 

The Fed¡¦s QE3 program would ¡§only have a 
marginal benefit [in the U.S.] as there is already 
no lack of liquidity .. . and that liquidity is not going 
into production.¡¨ 

He said it was instead depressing the dollar 
and aimed at boosting U.S. exports. 

He cited Japan¡¦s decision this week to expand 
its own QE program, coming on the heels of the 
Fed¡¦s decision to launch further QE last week, as 
evidence of growing global tensions. ¡§That¡¦s a 
currency war,¡¨ he said. 

But continued QE policies would hurt trade 
throughout the world, from emerging economies 
to developed world exporters such as Germany 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


and Japan. 

¡§Japanese companies 
were complaining about 
their strong exchange rate. 
If a weaker dollar leads to 
rising trade competition, 
then that will also force 
Brazil to adopt measures 
to stop the real strengthening,¡¨ 
Mr. Mantega said. 
(FT, 21 September 2012) 

Robbing Hoods In 
the United States particularly, 
the cheap-money, low-interest-
rate policy hit the general 
public, long conditioned to 
build their savings accounts, 
the hardest. With Fed interest 
rates now at or near zero, and 
scheduled to remain there for 
three more years, the old adage, 
¡§A penny saved is a penny 
earned,¡¨ had become, ¡§A penny 
saved is a penny devalued.¡¨ 

Once upon a time, in the 
old pre-QE days, responsible 
people would put money away 
for a rainy day or to support 
them through their retirement 
years. The quaint notion was 
that rather than spend it in on 
consumer products or invest 

in risky equities, people would save money in a bank and 
in return they would earn interest. It had long been the 
American Way ¡V but it no longer was. 

People with extra earnings had two choices: invest 
in equity markets and take a risk, or put it in the bank 
and watch their savings devalue as the inflation rate rose. 
So egregious had the saving scam become (we take your 
money and give you back next to nothing) that bankers, 
unable to pitch it with a straight face, hired comedians: 

Theoretically, only those Americans with the means to 
deposit $5 million dollars in a bank would be able to earn 
a modest American median income of $50,054 at 1.00% 
interest, a sum that would hardly allow them to live the 
lifestyle to which they were accustomed. 

But given an annual inflation rate of 9 percent ¡V using 
the 1980 official methodology for measuring the CPI ¡V at 
the end of the year, the $5 million in the bank had declined 
in value by $450,000. Such a deal! Put your money 

in Capital One ¡V and watch it lose eight percent in a year! 

Needless to say, no one with $5 million to spare would 
put it in a bank at 1.00 percent. But for millions of Americans, 
the insignificant interest rate return has taken away 
a time-honored savings safety net. 

Is Everybody Happy? By virtually all measures, 
America¡¦s pride ¡V the once-populous and prosperous 
middle class ¡V was being hollowed out. 

Yet, during this political season, the president, his 
challenger and the politicians running for the Senate and 
the House are either afraid to tell the American people 
how serious the conditions are (perhaps fearing they will 
blame the messenger) or they still cannot see it themselves. 


But, barely a day goes by without some socio-economic 
and geopolitical story (in the headlines or boondocked to 
the back pages) that captures a telling aspect of the systemic 
decline and disintegration of Empire America: 

n US incomes fall to 1989 levels. How did it happen? 

Christian Science Monitor, 12 September 2012) 

n Report: Median Income Worse Now Than During 

Great Recession (CBSDC, 18 September 2012) 

n Stagnant Incomes Signal Restraint in Spending by 

U.S. Consumers (Bloomberg, 10 September 2012) 
n Why Fewer Americans Are Starting New Businesses 
(CNBC, 31 July 2012) 
n Dollar is Near 4-Month Low Against Euro After Fed 
Expands Easing (Bloomberg, 14 September 2012) 
n Jobless Claims Rose More Than Forecast Last Week 
(Bloomberg, 13 September, 2012) 
n U.S. Debt Now $136,260 Per Household ¡V Up 50 % 
Under Obama (CBS News, 4 September 2012,) 
n Stakes rise and US is warned of double dip (FT, 23 
August 2012) 
n Majority of new jobs pay lower wages, study finds 
(New York Times, 4 September 2012 
n August Job Report Disappoints (CBS, 7 September 
2012) 
n Trading Caps and Gowns for Mops (Wall Street 
Journal, 22 August 2012) 
n US Census Figures Show More Than One in Five 
Children are Living in Poverty (The Guardian, 12 
September 2012) 
n Retirees¡¦ New Pastime: Cutting Costs in all Sorts of 
Ways (USA Today, 9 September 2012) 
n Hidden Unemployed: Too Discouraged to Count 
(CNBC, 23 September 2012) 
n Goldman Sachs Analysts Say Bank Slowdown Isn¡¦t 
Temporary (Bloomberg, 10 September 2012) 
The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


n Trade Gap in U.S. Widened to $42 Billion as Exports 
Fell (Bloomberg, 11 September 2012) 
n Young U.S. Adults Flock to Parents¡¦ Homes Amid 
Economy (Bloomberg, 9 September 2012) 
n US Slips Down in the Ranks of Global Competitiveness 
(CNBC, 9 September 2012) 
n Food-Stamp Use Climbs to Record (Businessweek, 5 
September 2012) 
n Low-Wage Work Force Grows 30% as the Number of 
Jobs Shrinks (Suntimes, 25 September 2012) 
n U.S. Economy Expanded Less Than Forecast in 
Second Quarter (Bloomberg, 26 September 2012) 
n Orders for U.S. Goods Point to Capital Investment 
Slowdown (Bloomberg, 26 September 2012) 


Throughout the world, variations on the same theme are 
revealed in the headlines and the data: 

China Stocks Breach Key Level, 
More Losses Seen 


China¡¦s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index 
broke below a key support level on Wednesday, 
touching its lowest point in more than three and a 
half years, and market watchers told CNBC mainland 
stocks are set to suffer further losses in the 
coming weeks. 

 ¡§Chinese stocks have been in a steady downtrend 
since May this year, as retail investors 

¡X which account for around 80 percent of the 
turnover at the country¡¦s two stock exchanges 
in Shanghai and Shenzhen ¡X dump equities in 
search of less volatile alternatives. Since the start 
of the year, the Shanghai Composite has fallen 9 
percent. 
Recent numbers out of China have shown that 
the slowdown in the world¡¦s second largest economy 
is deeper than initially thought. Factory activity 
in August, for example, contracted for the 10th 
month in a row. 

The government has announced both monetary 
and fiscal stimulus for the flagging economy 
this year, but unlike the foreign investment community, 
domestic investors have failed to get excited 
by these announcements, Chan said. 

¡§While western watchers are looking for more 
stimulus, the people closer to the market are looking 
at the quality of the stimulus,¡¨ he said. 

Stimulus measures over the past, including the 
$150 billion-plus in infrastructure spending and incentives 
for exporters, have failed to drive a sustainable 
turnaround in the market. While this did lead 
to a temporary rally in the first week of September, it 

soon fizzled out. (CNBC, 26 September 2012) 

Honeymoon Over as Markets 
Brace for Volatile Times 


The message from this week¡¦s sell off in global 
stock markets could not be clearer: The summer 
time rally, fueled by optimism over central bank 
stimulus measures, is now over and it¡¦s time to 
brace for a period of renewed volatility and uncertainty, 
analysts say. 

The S&P 500 index on Tuesday suffered its 
worst day in three months, while Asian stocks 
slumped on Wednesday, with Japan¡¦s benchmark 
Nikkei stock index down 1.7 percent in early 
trade. The sharp sell-off and renewed concerns 
about Spain¡¦s economy are likely to set the tone 
for European markets on Wednesday. 

A retreat in global markets, which have seen 
stellar gains over the last three months, reflects a 
shift in sentiment among investors, analysts say. 
They add that now the world¡¦s major central banks 
have unveiled steps to help their economies, focus 
has returned to the economic outlook, which remains 
weak in much of the world. 

¡§The honeymoon period for markets is over. 
There is a realization that central banks have laid 
their cards on the table now and not much more 
can be done to help growth,¡¨ said Justin Harper, 
market strategist at IG Markets in Singapore. 

The European Central Bank (ECB) cheered 
markets at the start of the month when it outlined 
how it would help bring an end to the euro zone 
debt crisis with a plan to buy the bonds of those 
euro zone countries facing high borrowing costs. 

Markets got another boost two weeks ago when 
the Federal Reserve unveiled an aggressive asset-
buying plan to boost the U.S. economy and revive 
employment growth, while the Bank of Japan surprised 
markets last week when it delivered its own 
monetary easing measures. 

Protests in Spain on Tuesday against unpopular 
austerity measures, meanwhile, act as a reminder 
that the euro zone¡¦s debt crisis is far from 
over. (CNBC, 22 September 2012) 

Storm Clouds Darken 

Over Global Economy 

Central banks¡¦ recent aggressive policy actions 
will not be enough to spur economic growth in 
the remainder of 2012 and in 2013, economists 
say, with the euro zone debt crisis expected to 
rumble on, growth in Asia seen slowing further, 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


and a recovery in the United States expected to be 
disappointing. 

Euro zone business activity dropped in September 
to its lowest since January 2010, data released 
on Thursday showed. 

In China, activity for mainland factories 
inched a bit higher in September from August 
but still stretched into an 11th straight month of 
contraction. 

The numbers come just two weeks after the European 
Central Bank (ECB) announced it would 
buy unlimited amounts of short-term bonds in an 
attempt to restore confidence and boost growth. 

Since then, the Federal Reserve has also announced 
a new round of bond buying in an attempt 
to tackle slow growth in the economy. 

The Bank of Japan on Wednesday became the 
latest central bank to boost its bond buying program, 
hoping the purchases would help to keep 
blunt the appreciation of the yen in order to boost 
the country¡¦s exports. 

While Thursday¡¦s PMI figures might not yet 
reflect the impact of the Fed and Bank of Japan¡¦s 
moves, many economists feel the measures will 
prove to be too little, too late. 

¡§Even with policy action, economic growth in 
major countries is likely to remain disappointing 
in 2013,¡¨ Citigroup analysts said in a note to 
clients. 

The bank kept its 2012 global growth forecast 
steady at 2.5 percent, but cut its 2013 forecast to 

2.6 percent from 2.8 percent forecast last month. 
¡§Within that, we have cut our 2013 China 
growth forecast to 7.6 percent from 8.0 percent, 
with our 2012 forecast staying at 7.9 percent. 

In all, over the last six months, we have cut our 
2012 China growth forecast by 0.5 percent and cut 
our 2013 forecast by 1.0 percent. 

This is among the sharpest pace of downgrades 
seen in recent years,¡¨ Citigroup said. 

The bank also sharply cut its Japan growth 
forecasts. 

¡§Today¡¦s figures confirm we are in a serious 
dip. It is hard to see how we will get out of this 
again,¡¨ Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING 
told CNBC.com. 

¡§In Europe we see the same old story. Southern 
Europe is in a deep recession and Germany is 
keeping the euro zone afloat,¡¨ he said. 

Meanwhile China faces problems in commercial 
property with signs of a bubble, Brzeski said, 
while the United States ¡§sometimes looks like a 

southern European country¡¨ that needs structural 
reforms, has an ailing housing market and ¡V by 

U.S. standards ¡V high unemployment. 
ING expects the global economy to expand by 
2.4 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2013, but 
does not expect the euro zone to return to growth 
until 2014. 
Double Trouble in Europe 

The euro zone faces additional complications if it 
continues to see the divergent economic growth 
rates it is currently witnessing. 

Thursday¡¦s PMI readings were better than expected 
for Germany, but below forecast for France. 

Such a divergence makes policymaking even 
harder in a region already troubled by an inability 
to set different interest rates for different 
economies. 

While the likelihood of a Greek exit from the 
euro zone will continue to add to uncertainty, 
Spain and Italy¡¦s finances will also remain a cause 
for concern, fueling growth fears. 

Meanwhile Spain and Italy will likely tap the 
ECB¡¦s ¡§Outright Monetary Transaction¡¨ program, 
the new bond buying scheme announced earlier 
this month, Citigroup said, but the ultimate outcome 
in those countries was difficult to predict. 

¡§It is unclear how the near-term vulnerabilities 
of Italy and Spain will be resolved. (CNBC, 20 
September 2012) 

Trends Analysis: The above bullet pointed headlines and 
wire service stories constitute but a brief sampling from 
the ongoing onslaught of negative economic and geopolitical 
news. The markets were in a downturn. The vaunted 
stimulus/money-pumping schemes were running out of 
steam, and the people were rioting. 

Taken individually, such headlines are troubling. 
When taken together, the casual reader, or even a reader 
with a fixed ideology, or a Pollyanna, should be able to 
see what those headlines add up to: No Recovery, More 
Decline, and Potential Disaster. 

Trendpost: What are the investment options in a ¡§No 
Recovery, More Decline, Potential Disaster¡¨ global 
economy? 

Precious Metals: Since we are not registered financial 
advisors, and thus not permitted to provide investment 
advice, speaking only for ourselves, we maintain our decades-
long strategy to buy gold and silver. With the world 
money presses whirring away, we see no profit potential in 
holding nations¡¦ ¡§print on demand¡¨ fiat currencies, especially 
when issued by nations that can¡¦t pay their bills and 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


that keep piling on more debt. 

We also want to emphasis that while we continue to 
forecast Gold $2000-plus, there is a real possibility for 
market manipulation and/or government intervention. 
Considering that rising gold prices are anathema to fiat 
currency based central banks, it would be in their interest 
to dramatically drive the price down. 

Nevertheless, as we have also long maintained, for us, 
gold is our security for our golden years. In an uncertain 
world, where so-called legacy stocks and sound retirement 
funds disappear overnight, gold and silver are tangible assets 
that, even should they lose market value, will always 
have value. 

Again, understanding that we do not provide financial 
advice, if you believe in gold and silver, one strategy to 
consider is buying what you can afford each month. Thus, 
over time, despite dramatic fluctuations, the price could 
be favorably averaged out. 

Real Estate: We are on record with our forecast that 
various sectors have bottomed out. Despite the near certainty 
for continuing financial crises, we believe there are 
investment opportunities in real estate. With the ability to 
borrow at 3.5 percent for commercial properties that have 
income producing potential, and the probability of higher 
inflation (meaning paying loans back with devalued money) 
we have personally invested in carefully selected commercial 
properties. 

One More Time No Recovery, More Decline, and 
Potential Disaster is what we have been warning about 
since the onset of the Panic of ¡¦08. We predicted that history 
would repeat itself, and it is now doing so. 

First there was the Panic of ¡¥08, then the Great Recession/
Depression, followed by an intensifying currency 
war. And, now the trade wars are beginning to heat up. 
In the US, both presidential and congressional candidates 
are ratcheting up the anti-China rhetoric, blaming America¡¦s 
economic troubles on unfair Chinese trade practices 
and currency manipulation: 

News Analysis: Why China becomes 
political card in U.S. elections 

WASHINGTON ¡X As U.S. Republican presiden


tial candidate Mitt Romney and President Barack 

Obama are stepping up attacks in their election 

campaigns against each other involving China, 

the topic of China is quickly becoming a political 

card in this year¡¦s presidential elections. 

Experts say the reason is that it is relatively 

risk-free. 

However, these attacks are worrying many, as 

they could lead to trade wars and further damage 
the U.S. economy if the candidates were forced to 
honor them next year when they were voted into 
office. 

The first draw of this round of attacks was made 
by Romney. The former Massachusetts governor 
told supporters at a Virginia campaign event last 
week that it was China¡¦s ¡§undervalued¡¨ currency 

¡X the Chinese yuan ¡X that forced U.S. manufacturers 
out of their jobs. His campaign, meanwhile, 
released an ad blaming Obama for being ¡§soft¡¨ 
with China¡¦s ¡§cheating,¡¨ turning a blind eye to the 
fact that the Chinese currency has so far appreciated 
more than 30 percent against the U.S. dollar 
since Beijing began to reform its exchange rate 
regime in 2005. 
The Obama campaign responded this week by 
criticizing Romney for sending American jobs to 
China by investing in Chinese companies during 
his tenure at Bain Capital, a private equity firm 
Romney ran before entering politics. 

The Obama administration also brought up a 
major trade case at the World Trade Organization 
(WTO) against China¡¦s subsidies to its automobile 
industry on the same day as Obama visited the 
industry-heavy swing-state of Ohio. The administration 
has brought up two major complaints at 
the WTO against China in the past two months, 
both during the same week as Obama visited the 
crucial state. 

¡§These ¡K subsidies,¡¨ claimed Obama at a 
campaign rally Monday in Cincinnati, Ohio, ¡§directly 
harm working men and women on the assembly 
lines in Ohio and Michigan and across the 
Midwest.¡¨ 

The president also used the event to accuse 
Romney, saying Romney¡¦s experience has been 
¡§owning companies that were called ¡¥pioneers¡¦ in 
the business of outsourcing jobs to countries like 
China.¡¨ 

Newspapers such as The Washington Post and 
The Wall Street Journal ran editorials in the past 
week, calling for a stop in China-bashing, while 
cautioning protectionism tendencies exhibited in 
both campaigns. 

The business community also has reason to 
worry. The Conservative policy group the Club 
for Growth, which champions pro-business, free-
market views, issued a statement Monday, accusing 
both candidates of threatening to ¡§enact 
anti-growth policies against China that will raise 
prices, incite a trade war, and do real damage to 

The Trends Journal ¡E Autumn 2012 


our country¡¦s economic recovery. (Xinhua, 19 

September 2012) 

The 1st Great War of the 21st Century 

Even though the media covered the intensifying China 
bashing and the possibility of a trade war, no one was recognizing 
the situation as an instance of history repeating 
itself. The times had changed and the countries involved 
were different, but the underlying circumstances were 
nearly identical. 

Just as the Crash of ¡¦29 was followed 
by the Great Depression, 
then currency wars and trade wars 
that led to World War II, so too, 
the Panic of ¡¦08, followed by the 
Great Recession currency wars, 
and trade wars will lead to The 1st 
Great War of the 21st Century, that 
we have been forecasting. 

In fact, the world was already at war: 

n How many more riots and 

protests would have to erupt in 

the Iraq War that has turned into civil war before the 
experts and authorities call them endless wars? 
n How many more bases must the United States open 
up in Africa and how widely must it spread its military 
presence throughout the Asian/Pacific theater before 
it becomes clear that a Chinese/Anglo conflict is inevitable? 
n How many more conflicts must erupt between China 
and Japan, Philippines, South Korea and Vietnam over 
disputed islands and resource-rich territorial waters 

before it is called a regional war? 
n How long would it be before simmering 
political and social unrest 
in Hungary, Belarus, Romania, 
Bulgaria, Georgia, and the Caucuses 
boil over into civil war and/ 
or regional warfare? 
n How many more threats must Israel 
make against Iran before one 
attacks the other and the major 
powers join in the conflagration? 

As with the economic headlines 
cited above, while all of these geo-

Anthony Freda / Dan Zollinger 
India, Spain, Portugal, Greece, 

Egypt, Tunisia, South Africa 

and other depression-ravaged 

countries before the experts and 

authorities would call it class 

warfare? 

n How many more civil wars had 

political hotspots are serious and 

menacing in their own right, once 

again the experts and authorities 

do not take into consideration the 

full extent of their explosive poten


tial. Moreover, it is only when all 

are added up and viewed as a whole, 

to break out in Syria, Libya, Yemen, 
Bahrain and other Middle East/North African/ 
African countries before the experts and authorities 
would call it regional war? 
n How many more people had to die in the decade-
long Afghan War (that has bled into Pakistan) and in 

that what the future holds can even 
be contemplated: The 1st Great War of the 21st Century. 

Whether or not it is already too late to do anything to 
forestall it is impossible say with certainty. But what is 
certain is that if that global prospect is not recognized and 
acknowledged, it will very soon be too late. ¡E 


PUT YOUR MONEY WHERE YOUR MIND ISR 
I would like to subscribe to The Trends Journal. Each year I will receive four (4) 
issues plus intermittent Trend Alerts and access to exclusive Trends in The News 
videos. 

Online Edition: q 1 year $99 q 2 years $175 q 3 years $225 
Magazine & Online Edition: q 1 year $185 q 2 years $249 q 3 years $349 

Outside the US, please add $25 per year (for magazine edition subscription only) 

To renew online, go to www.trendsresearch.com and click ¡§Trends Journal¡¨ 
To renew by mail, send payment to: 

The Trends Research Institute 

P.O. Box 3476, Kingston, NY 12402 
845 331-3500 
NAME 

TITLE 

COMPANY 

STREET ADDRESS 

CITY STATE ZIP 

E-MAIL PHONE 


